--- Page 3 ---
World Development Report 1993
Investing in Health

Published for the World Bank
Oxford University Press


--- Page 4 ---
Oxford University Press
OXFORD NEW YORK TORONTO DELHI
BOMBAY CALCUTTA MADRAS KARACHI
KUALA LUMPUR SINGAPORE HONG KONG
TOKYO NAIROBI DARES SALAAM
CAPE TOWN MELBOURNE AUCKLAND
and associated companies in
BERLIN IBADAN

© 1993 The International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development I THE WORLD BANK
1818 H Street, N. W, Washington, D.C. 20433 U.S.A.

Published by Oxford University Press, Inc.
200 Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10016

Oxford is a registered trademark of Oxford University Press.

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced,
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means,
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without
the prior permission of Oxford University Press.

Manufactured in the United States of America
First printing June 1993

The maps that accompany the text have been prepared solely for the
convenience of the reader; the designations and presentation of material in
them do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of
the World Bank, its affiliates, or its Board or member countries concerning
the legal status of any country, territory, city, or area, or of the authorities
thereof, or concerning the delimitation of its boundaries or its national
affiliation.

The map on the cover, which shows the
eight demographic regions used in the analysis in this Report,
seeks to convey an impression of the general improvement
in health experienced worldwide during the past forty years.

ISBN 0-19-520889-7 clothbound
ISBN 0-19-620890-0 paperback
ISSN 0163-5085

Text printed on recycled paper that conforms to
the American National Standard for Permanence of Paper
for Printed Library Materials, 239.48-1984


--- Page 5 ---
Foreword

World Development Report 1993, the sixteenth in this Second, government spending on health should
annual series, examines the interplay between hu­ , be redirected to more cost-effective programs that
man health, health policy, and economic develop­ do more to help the poor. Government spending
ment. The three most recent reports-on the envi­ accounts for half of the $168 billion annual expen­
ronment, on development strategies, and on diture on health in developing countries. Too
poverty-have furnished an overview of the goals much of this sum goes to specialized care in ter­
and means of development. This year's report on tiary facilities that provides little gain for the
health, like next year's on infrastructure, examines money spent. Too little goes to low-cost, highly
in depth a single sector in which the impact of effective programs such as control and treatment
public finance and public policy is of particular of infectious diseases and of malnutrition. Devel­
importance. oping countries as a group could reduce their bur­
Countries at all levels of income have achieved den of disease by 25 percent-the equivalent of
great advances in health. Although an unaccepta­ averting more than 9 million infant deaths-by re­
bly high proportion of children in the developing directing to public health programs and essential
world-one in ten-die before reaching age 5, this clinical services about half, on average, of the gov­
number is less than half that of 1960. Declines in ernment spending that now goes to services of low
poverty have allowed households to increase con­ cost-effectiveness.
sumption of the food, clean water, and shelter nec­ Third, governments need to promote greater di­
essary for good health. Rising educational levels versity and competition in the financing and deliv­
have meant that people are better able to apply ery of health services. Government financing of
new scientific knowledge to promote their own public health and essential clinical services would
and their families' health. Health systems have leave the coverage of remaining clinical services to
met the demand for better health through an ex­ private finance, usually mediated through insur­
panded supply of services that offer increasingly ance, or to social insurance. Government regula­
potent interventions. tion can strengthen private insurance markets by
Yet developing countries, and especially their improving incentives for wide coverage and for
poor, continue to suffer a heavy burden of disease, cost control. Even for publicly financed clinical ser­
much of which can be inexpensively prevented or vices, governments can encourage competition
cured. (If the child mortality rate in developing and private sector involvement in service supply
countries were reduced to the level that prevails in and can help improve the efficiency of the private
high-income countries, 11 million fewer children sector by generating and disseminating key infor­
would die each year.) Furthermore, increasing mation. The combination of these measures will
numbers of developing countries are beginning to improve health outcomes and contain costs while
face the problems of rising health system costs enhancing consumer satisfaction.
now experienced by high-income countries. Significant reforms in health policy are feasible,
This Report advocates a three-pronged ap­as experience in several developing countries has
proach to government policies for improving shown. The donor community can assist by fi­
health in developing countries. First, governments nancing the transitional costs of change, especially
need to foster an economic environment that en= in low-income countries. The reforms outlined in
abies households to improve their own health. this Report will translate into longer, healthier, and
Growth policies (including, where necessary, eco­ more productive lives for people around the
nomic adjustment policies) that ensure income world, and especially for the more than 1 billion
gains for the poor are essential. So, too, is ex­ poor.
panded investment in schooling, particularly for The World Health Organization (WHO) has
girls. been a full partner with the World Bank at every

iii


--- Page 6 ---
step of the preparation of the Report. I would like World Bank is grateful to them as well . Specific
to record my appreciation to WHO and to its many acknowledgments are provided elsewhere in the
staff members at global and regional levels who Report.
facilitated this partnership . The Report has bene­ Like its predecessors, World Development Report
fited greatly from WHO's extensive technical ex­ 1993 includes the World Development Indicators,
pertise . Starting from the Report's conception, which offer selected social and economic statistics
WHO participated actively by providing data on on 127 countries. The Report is a study by the
various aspects of health development and sys­ Bank's staff, and the judgments made herein do
tematic input for many technical consultations. not necessarily reflect the views of the Board of
Perhaps WHO's most significant contribution was Directors or of the governments they represent .
in a jointly sponsored assessment of the global
burden of disease, which is a key element of the
Report. I look forward to continued collaboration
between the World Bank and WHO in the discus­ Lewis T. Preston
sion and implementation of the messages in this President
Report. The United Nations Children's Fund The World Bank
(UNICEF), bilateral agencies, and other institu­
tions also contributed their expertise, and the May 31, 1993

This Report has been prepared by a team led by Dean T. jamison and comprising jose-Luis Bobadilla ,
Robert Hecht, Kenneth Hill, Philip Musgrove, Helen Saxenian, jee-Peng Tan, and, part-time, Seth
Berkley and Christopher J. L. Murray . Anthony R. Measham drafted and coordinated contributions
from the Bank's Population, Health, and Nutrition Department. Valuable contributions and advice
were provided by Susan Cochrane, Thomas W. Merrick, W. Henry Mosley, Alexander Preker, Lant
Pritchett, and Michael Walton. Extensive input to the Report from the World Health Organization was
coordinated through a Steering Committee chaired by jean-Paul jardel. An Advisory Committee
chaired by Richard G. A. Feachem provided valuable guidance at all stages of the Report's prepara­
tion . Members of these committees are listed in the Acknowledgments . Peter Cowley, Anna E .
Maripuu, Barbara J. McKinney, Karima Saleh, and Abdo S . Yazbeck served as research associates,
and interns Lecia A . Brown, Caroline) . Cook, Anna Godal, and Vito Luigi Tanzi assisted the team .
The work was carried out under the general direction of Lawrence H. Summers and Nancy Birdsall.
Many others inside and outside the Bank provided helpful comments and contributions (see the
Bibliographical note) . The Bank's International Economics Department contributed to the data appen­
dix and was responsible for the World Development Indicators . The production staff of the Report
included Ann Beasley, Stephanie Gerard, jane Gould, Kenneth Hale, jeffrey N . Lecksell, Nancy
Levine, Hugh Nees, Kathy Rosen, and Walton Rosenquist. The support staff was headed by Rhoda
Blade-Charest and included Laitan Alii and Nyambura Kimani. Trinidad S. Angeles served as admin­
istrative assistant. John Browning was the principal editor, and Rupert Pennant-Rea edited two
chapters .
Preparation of this Report was immensely, aided by contributions of the participants in a series of
consultations and seminars; the subjects and the names of participants are listed in the Acknowledg­
ments. The consultations could not have occurred without financial cooperation from the following
organizations, whose assistance is warmly acknowledged: the Canadian International Development
Association, the Danish International Development Agency, the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation,
the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Rockefeller Foundation, the Swiss Development
Cooperation, the U.S . Agency for International Development, the Overseas Development Adminis­
tration of the United Kingdom, and the Environmental Health Division and the Special Programme
for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases of the World Health Organization. The World Health
Organization and the United Nations Children's Fund contributed to the preparation of the statistical
appendices. Three academic institutions-the Harvard Center for Population and Development
Studies, the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, and the Swiss Tropical Institute­
provided important support for the preparation of the Report .

iv


--- Page 7 ---
Contents

Definitions and data notes x
Overview 1
Health systems and their problems 3
The roles of the government and of the market in health 5
Government policies for achieving health for all 6
Improving the economic environment for healthy households 7
Investing in public health and essential clinical services 8
Reforming health systems : promoting diversity and competition 11
An agenda for action 13
1 Health in developing countries: successes and challenges 17
Why health matters 17
The record of success 21
Measuring the burden of disease 25
Challenges for the future 29
Lessons from the past : explaining declines in mortality 34
The potential for effective action 35
2 Households and health 37
Household capacity : income and schooling 38
Policies to strengthen household capacity 44
What can be done? · 51
3 The roles of the government and the market in health 52
Health expenditures and outcomes 53
The rationales for government action 54
Value for money in health 59
Health policy and the performance of health systems 65
4 Public health 72
Population-based health services 72
Diet and nutrition 75
Fertility 82
Reducing abuse of tobacco, alcohol, and drugs 86
Environmental influences on health 90
AIDS : a threat to development 99
The essential public health package . 106
5 Clinical services 108
Public and private finance of clinical services 108
Selecting and financing the essential clinical package 112
Insurance and finance of discretionary clinical services 119
Delivery of clinical services 123
Reorienting clinical services and beyond 132

v


--- Page 8 ---
6 Health inputs 134
Reallocating investments in facilities and equipment 134
Addressing imbalances in human resources 139
Improving the selection , acquisition, and use of drugs 144
Generating information and strengthening research 148
7 An agenda for action 156
Health policy reform in developing countries 156
International assistance for health 165
Meeting the challenges of health policy reform 170
Acknowledgments 172
Bibliographical note 176
Appendix A. Population and health data 195
Appendix B. The global burden of disease, 1990 213
World Development Indicators 227

Boxes
1 Investing in health: key messages of this Report 6
2 The World Summit for Children 15
1.1 Controlling river blindness 19
1.2 The economic impact of AIDS 20
1.3 Measuring the burden of disease 26
1.4 The demographic and epidemiological transitions 30
2.1 Progress in child health in four countries 38
2.2 Teaching schoolchildren about health : radio instruction in Bolivia 48
2 .3 Violence against women as a health issue 50
3.1 Paying for tuberculosis control in China 58
3.2 Cost information and management decisions in a Brazilian hospital 60
3.3 Cost-effectiveness of interventions against measles and tuberculosis 63
3.4 Priority health problems: high disease burdens and cost-effective interventions 64
4.1 Women's nutrition 76
4.2 The Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project : making supplementary feeding work 80
4.3 World Bank policy on tobacco 89
4.4 After smallpox : slaying the dragon worm 92
4.5 The costs and benefits of investments in water supply and sanitation 93
4.6 Environmental and household control of mosquito vectors 94
4.7 Air pollution and health in Central Europe 97
4.8 Pollution in Japan : prevention would have been better and cheaper than cure 98
4.9 Coping with AIDS in Uganda 104
4.10 HIV in Thailand: from disaster toward containment 105
5.1 Making pregnancy and delivery safe 113
5 .2 Integrated management of the sick child 114
5.3 Treatment of sexually transmitted diseases 115
5.4 Short-course treatment of tuberculosis .1 16
5.5 Targeting public expenditure to the poor 119
5.6 Containing health care costs in industrial countries 122
5.7 Health care reform in the OECD 125
5.8 Traditional medical practitioners and the delivery of essential health services 129
5.9 "Managed competition" and health care reform in the United States 132
6 .1 International migration and the global market for health professionals 141
6.2 Community health workers 143

vi


--- Page 9 ---
6.3 Buying right: how international agencies save on purchases of pharmaceuticals 146
6.4 The contribution of standardized survey programs to health information 149
6.5 Evaluating cesarean sections in Brazil 150
6.6 An unmet need: inexpensive and simple diagnostics for STDs 154
7.1 Community financing of health centers: the Bamako Initiative 159
7.2 Health sector reforms in Chile 162
7.3 Reform of the Russian health system 164
7.4 Health assistance and the effectiveness of aid 168
7.5 World Bank support for reform of the health sector 169
7.6 Donor coordination in the health sector in Zimbabwe and Bangladesh 170

Text figures
1 Demographic regions used in this Report 2
2 Burden of disease attributable to premature mortality and disability, by demographic region, 1990 3
3 Infant and adult mortality in poor and nonpoor neighborhoods of Porto Alegre, Brazil, 1980 7
1.1 Child mortality by country, 1960 and 1990 22
1.2 Trends in life expectancy by demographic region, 1950-90 23
1.3 Age-standardized female death rates in Chile and in England and Wales, selected years 24
1.4 Change in female age-specific mortality rates in Chile and in England and Wales, selected years 24
1.5 Disease burden by sex and demographic region, 1990 28
1.6 Distribution of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) lost, by cause, for selected demographic regions,
1990 29
1.7 Trends in life expectancy and fertility in Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean,
1960-2020 30
1.8 Median age at death, by demographic region, 1950, 1990, and 2030 32
1. 9 Life expectancy and income per capita for selected countries and periods 34
2.1 Mutually reinforcing cycles: reduction of poverty and development of human resources 37
2.2 Child mortality in rich and poor neighborhoods in selected metropolitan areas, late 1980s 40
2.3 Declines in child mortality and growth of income per capita in sixty-five countries 41
2.4 Effect of parents' schooling on the risk of death by age 2 in selected countries, late 1980s 43
2.5 Schooling and risk factors for adult health, Porto Alegre, Brazil, 1987 44
2.6 Deviation from mean levels of public spending on health in countries receiving and not receiving
adjustment lending, 1980-90 46
2.7 Enrollment ratios in India, by grade, about 1980 47
3.1 Life expectancies and health expenditures in selected countries: deviations from estimates based on
GDP and schooling 54
3.2 Benefits and costs of forty-seven health interventions 62
4.1 Child mortality (in specific age ranges) and weight-for-age in Bangladesh, India, Papua New Guinea,
and Tanzania 77
4.2 Total fertility rates by demographic region, 1950-95 82
4.3 Risk of death by age 5 for fertility-related risk factors in selected countries, late 1980s 83
4.4 Maternal mortality in Romania, 1965-91 86
4.5 Trends in mortality from lung cancer and various other cancers among U.S. males, 1930-90 88
4.6 Population without sanitation or water supply services by demographic region, 1990 91
4.7 Simulated AIDS epidemic in a Sub-Saharan African country 100
4.8 Trends in new HIV infections under alternative assumptions, 1990-2000: Sub-Saharan Africa and
Asia 101
5.1 Income and health spending in seventy countries, 1990 110
5.2 Public financing of health services in low- and middle-income countries, 1990 117
6.1 The health system pyramid: where care is provided 135
6.2 Hospital capacity by demographic region, about 1990 136
6.3 Supply of health personnel by demographic region, 1990 or most recent available year 140
7.1 Disbursements of external assistance for the health sector, 1990 166
vii


--- Page 10 ---
Tables
1 Population, economic indicators, and progress in health by demographic region, 1975-90 2
2 Estimated costs and health benefits of the minimum package of public health and essential clinical
services in low- and middle-income countries, 1990 10
3 Contribution of policy change to objectives for the health sector 14
1.1 Burden of disease by sex, cause, and type of loss, 1990 25
1.2 Burden of five major diseases by age of incidence and sex, 1990 28
1.3 Evolution of the HIV-AIDS epidemic 3~
2 .1 Poverty and growth of income per capita by developing region, 1985 and 1990, and long- and
medium-term trends 42
3.1 Global health expenditure, 1990 52
3.2 Actual and proposed allocation of public expenditure on health in developing countries, 1990 66
3 .3 Total cost and potential health gains of a package of public health and essential clinical services, 1990 68
4 . 1 Burden of childhood diseases preventable by the Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI) by
demographic region, 1990 73
4.2 Costs and health benefits of the EPI Plus cluster in two developing country settings, 1990 74
4.3 Direct and indirect contributions of malnutrition to the global burden of disease, 1990 76
4.4 Cost-effectiveness of nutrition interventions 82
4 .5 Estimated burden of disease from poor household environments in demographically developing
countries, 1990, and potential reduction through improved household services 90
4.6 Estimated global burden of disease from selected environmental threats, 1990, and potential
worldwide reduction through environmental interventions 95
4 .7 Costs and health benefits of public health packages in low- and middle-income countries, 1990 106
5 .1 Rationales and directions for government action in the finance and delivery of clinical services 109
5.2 Clinical health systems by income group 111
5.3 Estimated costs and health benefits of selected public health and clinical services in low- and middle-
income countries, 1990 117
5.4 Social insurance in selected countries, 1990 120
5.5 Strengths and weaknesses of alternative methods of paying health providers 124
5 .6 Policies to improve delivery of health care 126
6.1 Annual drug expenditures per capita, selected countries, 1990 145
6.2 Some priorities for research and product development, ranked by the top six contributors to the global
burden of disease 152
7 .1 The relevance of policy changes for three country groups 157
7.2 Official development assistance for health by demographic region, 1990 167

Appendix tables
A . 1 Population (midyear) and average annual growth 199
A .2 GNP, population, GNP per capita, and growth of GNP per capita 199
A.3 Population structure and dynamics 200
A.4 Population and deaths by age group 202
A.5 Mortality risk and life expectancy across the life cycle 203
A.6 Nutrition and health behavior 204
A .7 Mortality, by broad cause, and tuberculosis incidence 206
A.8 Health infrastructure and services 208
A.9 Health expenditure and total flows from external assistance 210
A.10 Economies and populations by demographic region, mid-1990 212
B.1 Burden of disease by age and sex, 1990 215
B.2 Burden of disease in females by cause, 1990 216
B.3 Burden of disease in males by cause, 1990 218

viii


--- Page 11 ---
B.4 Burden of disease by age and the three main groups of causes , 1990 220
B.S Burden of disease by consequence , sex, and age, 1990 221
B.6 Distribution of the disease burden in children in demographically developing economies , 3howing the
ten main causes, 1990 222
B.7 Distribution of the disease burden in the adult and elderly populations in demographically developing
economies, showing the ten main causes, 1990 223
B.8 Deaths by cause and demographic group, 1990 224

ix


--- Page 12 ---
Definitions and data notes

Selected terms related to health, as used in this calculated as the present value of the future years
Report of disability-free life that are lost as the result of the
premature deaths or cases of disability occurring in
Child mortality. The probability of dying between a particular year. (See Box 1.3 and Appendix B for
birth and age 5, expressed per 1,000 live births. further details.)
The term under-five mortality is also used . Population-based health services. Services , such as
Median age at death. The age below which half of immunization, that are directed toward all mem­
all deaths in a year occur . This measure is deter­ bers of a specific population subgroup .
mined both by the age distribution of the popula­ Tertiary care facility. A hospital or other facility
tion and by the age pattern of mortality risks . It that offers a specialized, highly technical level of
does not represent the average age at which any health care for the population of a large region.
group of individuals will die, and it is not directly Characteristics include specialized intensive care
related to life expectancy. units, advanced diagnostic support services, and
Total fertility rate. The number of children that highly specialized personnel.
would be born to a woman if she were to live to the
end of her childbearing years and bear children at Country groups
each age in accordance with prevailing age-specific For operational and analytical purposes the World
fertility rates. Bank's main criterion for classifying economies is
Externality. A spillover of benefits or losses from gross national product (GNP) per capita . Every
one individual to another. economy is classified as low-income, middle-in­
Intervention (in health care). A specific activity come (subdivided into lower-middle and upper­
meant to reduce disease risks, treat illness, or palli­ middle), or high -income. Other analytical groups,
ate the consequences of disease and disability. based on regions, exports , and levels of external
A/locative efficiency. The extent of optimality in debt, are also used.
distribution of resources among a number of com­ Because of changes in GNP per capita, the coun­
peting uses. try composition of each income group may change
Technical efficiency. The extent to which choice from one edition to the next. Once the classifica­
and utilization of input resources produce a spe­ tion is fixed for any edition, all the historical data
cific health output, intervention, or service at low­ presented are based on the same country group­
est cost. ing. The income-based country groupings used in
Cost-effectiveness (in health care). The net gain in this year's Report are defined as follows.
health or reduction in disease burden from a
health intervention in relation to the cost. Mea­ • Low-income economies are those with a GNP per
sured in dollars per disability-adjusted life year capita of $635 or less in 1991.
(see next two entries) . • Middle-income economies are those with a GNP
Global burden of disease (GBD) . An indicator de­ per capita of more than $635 but less than $7,911 in
veloped for this Report in collaboration with the 1991. A further division, at GNP per capita of
World Health Organization that quantifies the loss · $2, 555 in 1991, is made between lower-middle­
of healthy life from disease; measured in disabil­ income and upper-middle-income economies .
ity-adjusted life years. • High-income economies are those with a GNP
Disability-adjusted life year (DALY). A unit used per capita of $7,911 or more in 1991.
for measuring both the global burden of disease • World comprises all economies, including
and the effectiveness of health interventions, as economies with sparse data and those with less
indicated by reductions in the disease burden. It is than 1 million population; these are not shown

X


--- Page 13 ---
separately in the main tables but are presented in The regional grouping of economies in the WDI
Table 1a in the technical notes to the World Devel­ differs from that used in the main text of this Re­
opment Indicators (WDI). port. Part 1 of the table "Classification of econ­
Demographic regions omies" at the end of the WDI lists countries by the
WDI's income and regional classifications.
For purposes of demographic and epidemiological Low-income and middle-income economies are
analysis, this year's Report (including its health sometimes referred to as developing economies.
data appendices but not the WDI) groups econ­ The use of the term is convenient; it is not in­
omies into eight demographic regions, defined as tended to imply that all economies in the group are
follows: experiencing similar development or that other
• Sub-Saharan Africa comprises all countries economies have reached a preferred or final stage
south of the Sahara including Madagascar and of development. Classification by income does not
South Africa but excluding Mauritius, Reunion, necessarily reflect development status. (In the
and Seychelles, which are in the Other Asia and WDI, high-income economies classified as devel­
islands group. oping by the United Nations or regarded as devel­
• India oping by their authorities are identified by the
• China symbol t.) The use of the term "countries" to refer
• Other Asia and islands includes the low- and to economies implies no judgment by the Bank
middle-income economies of Asia (excluding India about the legal or other status of a territory.
and China) and the islands of the Indian and Pa­ Analytical groups
cific oceans except Madagascar.
• Latin America and the Caribbean comprises all For some analytical purposes, other overlapping
American and Caribbean economies south of the classifications that are based predominantly on ex­
United States, including Cuba. ports or external debt are used, in addition to in­
• Middle Eastern crescent consists of the group of come or geographic groups. Listed below are the
economies extending across North Africa through economies in these groups that have populations
the Middle East to the Asian republics of the for­ of more than 1 million. Countries with sparse data
mer Soviet Union and including Israel, Malta, and those with less than 1 million population, al­
Pakistan, and Turkey. though not shown separately, are included in
• Formerly socialist economies of Europe (FSE) in­ group aggregates.
cludes the European republics of the former Soviet • Fuel exporters are countries for which exports
Union and the formerly socialist economies of of petroleum and gas accounted for at least 50 per­
Eastern and Central Europe. cent of exports in the period 1987-89. They are
• Established market economies (EME) includes all Algeria, Angola, Brunei, Congo, Gabon, Islamic
the countries of the Organization for Economic Co­ Republic of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Nigeria, Oman,
operation and Development (OECD) except Tur­ Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Trinidad and Tobago, Turk­
key, as well as a number of small high-income menistan, United Arab Emirates, and Venezuela.
economies in Europe. • Severely indebted middle-income economies (ab­
These eight regions fall into two broad demo­ breviated to "Severely indebted" in the WDI) are
graphic groups. The first consists of the FSE and twenty-one countries that are deemed to have en­
EME, where relatively uniform age distributions countered severe debt-servicing difficulties. These
are leading to older populations. The other six re­ are defined as countries in which, averaged over
gions are referred to as demographically developing, 1989-91, either of two key ratios is above critical
in the sense that their age distributions are youn­ levels: present value of debt to GNP (80 percent)
ger but aging. The demographically developing or present value of debt to exports of goods and all
economies correspond approximately to the low­ services (200 percent). The twenty-one countries
and middle-income economies. Figure 1 of t_he are Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bolivia,
Overview depicts these regional groups. Table Brazil, Bulgaria, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Ec­
A.10 of Appendix A lists all economies by demo­ uador, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Mexico, Mongolia,
graphic region and indicates their mid-1990 popu­ Morocco, Panama, Peru, Poland, and Syrian Arab
lation. Appendix tables A.3 through A.9 provide Republic.
demographic and health data by economy within • In the WDI, DECO members, a subgroup of
these regions for economies with populations high-income economies, comprises the members
greater than 3 million. of the OECD except for Greece, Portugal, and Tur-

xi


--- Page 14 ---
key, which are included among the middle-income Acronyms and initials
economies. In the main text of the Report, the
term "OECD countries" includes all OECD mem­ AIDS Acquired immune deficiency syn-
bers unless otherwise stated. drome
ARI Acute respiratory infection
Data notes BCG Bacillus of Calmette and Guerin vac-
cine (to prevent tuberculosis)
• Billion is 1,000 million. DALY Disability-adjusted life year
• Trillion is 1,000 billion. DPT Diphtheria, pertussis, and tetanus vac­
• Tons are metric tons, equal to 1,000 kilograms, cine
or 2,204.6 pounds. EPI Expanded Programme on Immuniza­
• Dollars are current U.S. dollars unless other­ tion (immunization against diphtheria,
wise specified. pertussis, tetanus, poliomyelitis, mea­
• Growth rates are based on constant price data sles, and tuberculosis)
and, unless otherwise noted, have been computed EPI Plus EPI with additional components: im­
with the use of the least-squares method. See the munization against hepatitis B and yel­
technical notes to the WDI for details of this low fever and, where appropriate, vi­
method. tamin A and iodine supplementation
• The symbol I in dates, as in "1988/89," means GBD Global burden of disease
that the period of time may be less than two years GDP Gross domestic product
but straddles two calendar years and refers to a GNP Gross national product
crop year, a survey year, or a fiscal year. HIV Human immunodeficiency virus
• The symbol .. in tables means not available. HMO Health maintenance organization
• The symbol - in tables means not applicable. NGO Nongovernmental organization
(In the WDI, a blank is used to mean not OECD Organization for Economic Coopera­
applicable.) tion and Development (Australia, Aus­
• The number 0 or 0.0 in tables and figures tria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Fin­
means zero or a quantity less than half the unit land, France, Germany, Greece,
shown and not known more precisely. Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Lux­
The cutoff date for all data in the WDI is April embourg, Netherlands, New Zealand,
30, 1993. Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden,
Historical data in this Report may differ from Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom,
those in previous editions because of continuous and United States)
updating as better data become available, because STD Sexually transmitted disease
of a change to a new base year for constant price UNDP United Nations Development Pro­
data, or because of changes in country composi­ gramme
tion of income and analytical groups. UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
Economic and demographic terms are defined in UNPF United Nations Population Fund
the technical notes to the WDI. WHO World Health Organization

xii


--- Page 15 ---
Overview

Over the past forty years life expectancy has im­ ratios are, on average, thirty times as high in de­
proved more than during the entire previous span veloping countries as in high - income countries .
of human history. In 1950 life expectancy in devel­Although health has improved even in the poor­
oping countries was forty years; by 1990 it had est countries, the pace of progress has been un­
increased to sixty-three years . In 1950 twenty-eight even. In 1960 in Ghana and Indonesia about one
of every 100 children died before their fifth birth­ child in five died before reaching age 5-a child
day; by 1990 the number had fallen to ten. Small­ mortality rate typical of many developing coun ­
pox, which killed more than 5 million annually in tries. By 1990 Indonesia's rate had dropped to
the early 1950s, has been eradicated entirely . Vac­ about one-half the 1960 level, but Ghana's had
cines have drastically reduced the occurrence of fallen only slightly . Table 1 provides a summary of
measles and polio . Not only do these improve­ regional progress in mortality reduction between
ments translate into direct and signif icant gains in 1975 and 1990. (Figure 1 illustrates the demo­
well-being, but they also reduce the economic bur­ graphic regions used in Table 1 and frequently
den imposed by unhealthy workers and sick or throughout this Report.)
absent schoolchildren. These successes have come In addition to premature mortality, a substantial
about in part because of growing incomes and in­ portion of the burden of disease consists of disabil­
creasing education around the globe and in part ity, ranging from polio-related paralysis to blind­
because of governments' efforts to expand health ness to the suffering brought about by severe psy­
services, which, moreover, have been enriched by chosis . To measure the burden of disease, this
technological progress . Report uses the disability-adjusted life year
Despite these remarkable improvements, enor­ (DALY), a measure that combines healthy life
mous health problems remain . Absolute levels of years lost because of premature mortality with
mortality in developing countries remain unac­ those lost as a result of disability .
ceptably high: child mortality rates are about ten There is huge variation in per person loss of
times higher than those in the established market DALYs across regions, mainly because of differ ­
economies . If death rates among children in poor ences in premature mortality ; regional differences
countries were reduced to those prevailing in the in loss of DALYs as a result of disability are much
rich countries, 11 million fewer children would die smaller (Figure 2) . The total loss of DALYs is re­
each year. Almost half of these preventable deaths ferred to as the global burden of disease .
are a result of diarrheal and respiratory illne'Ss, The world is facing serious new health chal­
exacerbated by malnutrition . In addition, every lenges. By 2000 the growing toll from acquired im­
year 7 million adults die of conditions that could be mune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) in developing
inexpensively prevented or cured; tuberculosis countries could easily rise to more than 1.8 million
alone causes 2 million of these deaths. About deaths annually, erasing decades of hard-won re­
400,000 women die from the direct complications ductions in mortality. The malaria parasite's in­
of pregnancy and childbirth. Maternal mortality creased resistance to available drugs could lead to

1


--- Page 16 ---
The first six regions named in the key are at intermediate stages of the demographic transition.

Figure 1 Demographic regions used in this Report

.,

·: · \:· ;·. '"

Sub-Saharan Africa Latin America and the Caribbean
India Middle Eastern crescent
China Formerly socialist economies of Europe
Other Asia and islands Established market economies

Table 1 Population, economic indicators, and progress in health by demographic region, 1975-90
Income per capita
Growth rate, Life expectancy at
Population, Deaths, 1975-90
1990 1990 Dollars, (percent per Child mortality birth (years)
Region (millions) (millions) 1990 year) 1975 1990 1975 1990
Sub-Saharan Africa 510 7.9 510 -1.0 212 175 48 52
India 850 9.3 360 2.5 195 127 53 58
China 1,134 8.9 370 7.4 85 43 56 69
Other Asia and islands 683 5.5 1.320 4.6 135 97 56 62
Latin America and the
Caribbean 444 3.0 2,190 -0.1 104 60 62 70
Middle Eastern
crescent 503 4.4 1,720 -1.3 174 111 52 61
Formerly socialist
economies of
Europe (FSE) 346 3.8 2,850 0.5 36 22 70 72
Established market
economies (EME) 798 7.1 19,900 2.2 21 11 73 76
Demographically
developing group• 4,123 39.1 900 3.0 152 106 56 63
FSE and EME 1.144 10.9 14,690 1.7 25 15 72 75
World 5,267 50.0 4,000 1.2 135 96 60 65
Note: Child mortality is the probability of dying between birth and age 5, expressed per 1,000 live births; life expectancy at birth is the average
number of years that a person would expect to live at the prevailing age-specific mortality rates .
a. The countries of the demographic regions Sub-Saharan Africa, India, China, Other Asia and islands, Latin America and the Caribbean, and
Middle Eastern crescent.
Source: For income per capita, World Bank data; for other items, Appendix A .

2


--- Page 17 ---
a doubling of malaria deaths , to nearly 2 million a role in the developing world is not in doubt. Public
year within a decade . Rapid progress in reducing health measures brought about the eradication of
child mortality and fertility rates will create new smallpox and have been central to the reduction in
demands on health care systems as the aging of deaths caused by vaccine-preventable childhood
populations brings to the fore costly noncommuni­ diseases. Expanded and improved clinical care has
cable diseases of adults and the elderly. Tobacco­ saved millions of lives from infectious diseases and
related deaths from heart disease and cancers injuries. But there are also major problems with
alone are likely to double by the first decade of the health systems that, if not resolved, will hamper
next century, to 2 million a year, and, if present progress in reducing the burden of premature
smoking patterns continue, they will grow to more mortality and disability and frustrate efforts to re­
than 12 million a year in developing countries in spond to new health challenges and emerging dis­
the second quarter of the next century . ease threats.
• Misallocation. Public money is spent on health
Health systems and their problems interventions of low cost-effectiveness, such as
surgery for most cancers, at the same time that
Although health services are only one factor in ex­ critical and highly cost-effective interventions,
plaining past successes, the importance of their such as treatment of tuberculosis and sexually

The disease burden is highest in poor countries, but disability remains a problem in all regions.

Figure 2 Burden of disease attributable to premature mortality and disability,
by demographic region, 1990

[]] Prem,1turc mortality
I2Ll Disability

DALYs lost per 1,000 population

Sub-Saharan India Middle Otner Asia Latin China Formerly Established
Africa Eastern and islands America socialist market
crescent and the economies economies
Caribbean of Europe

Source: Appendi x B.

3


--- Page 18 ---
transmitted diseases (STDs), remain under­lose out in health because public spending in the
funded. In some countries a single teaching hospi­ sector is heavily skewed toward high-cost hospital
tal can absorb 20 percent or more of the budget of services that disproportionately benefit better-off
the ministry of health, even though almost all cost­ urban groups. In Indonesia, despite concerted
effective interventions are best delivered at lower­ government efforts in the 1980s to improve health
level facilities. services for the poor, government subsidies to
• Inequity. The poor lack access to basic health health for the richest 10 percent of households in
services and receive low-quality care. Government 1990 were still almost three times the subsidies
spending for health goes disproportionately to the going to the poorest 10 percent of Indonesians.
affluent in the form of free or below-cost care in In middle-income countries governments fre­
sophisticated public tertiary care hospitals and quently subsidize insurance that protects only the
subsidies to private and public insurance. relatively wealthy-a small, affluent minority in
• Inefficiency. Much of the money spent on the case of private insurance in South Africa and
health is wasted: brand-name pharmaceuticals are Zimbabwe and, in Latin America, the larger indus­
purchased instead of generic drugs, health trial labor force covered by compulsory public in­
workers are badly deployed and supervised, and surance (so-called social insurance). The bulk of
hospital beds are underutilized. the population, especially the poor, relies heavily
• Exploding costs. In some middle-income devel­ on out-of-pocket payments and on government
oping countries health care expenditures are grow­ services that may be largely inaccessible to them.
ing much faster than income. Increasing numbers In Peru, for example, more than 60 percent of the
of general physicians and specialists, the availabil­ poor have to travel for more than an hour to obtain
ity of new medical technologies, and expanding primary health care, as compared with less than 3
health insurance linked to fee-for-service pay­ percent of the better-off. The quality of care is also
ments together generate a rapidly growing de­ low: drugs and equipment are in short supply;
mand for costly tests, procedures, and treatments. patient waiting times are long and medical consul­
World health spending-and thus also the po­ tations are short; and misdiagnoses and inap­
propriate treatment are common.
tential for misallocation, waste, and inequitable In the formerly socialist economies, where govern­
distribution of resources-is huge. For the world ments have historically been responsible for both
as a whole in 1990, public and private expenditure the financing and the delivery of health care,
on health services was about $1,700 billion, or 8 health care is free in principle, and wide coverage
percent of total world product. High-income coun­ of the population has been achieved. This has led
tries spent almost 90 percent of this amount, for an to greater apparent equity. But in reality, better-off
average of $1,500 per person. The United States consumers make informal out-of-pocket payments
alone consumed 41 percent of the global total­ to get better care: about 25 percent of health costs
more than 12 percent of its gross national product in Romania and 20 percent in Hungary, for exam­
(GNP). Developing countries spent about $170 bil­ ple, are under-the-table payments for phar­
lion, or 4 percent of their GNP, for an average of maceuticals and gratuities to health care providers.
$41 per person-less than one-thirtieth the amount Inefficiency is also widespread because the gov­
spent by rich countries. ernment-run health system is highly centralized,
In the low-income countries government hospitals bureaucratic, and unresponsive to citizens. Gov­
and clinics, which account for the greatest part of ernments have been slow to regulate workplace
the modern medical care provided, are often ineffi­ safety and environmental pollution and have
cient, suffering from highly centralized decision­ failed to mount effective campaigns against un­
making, wide fluctuations in budgetary alloca­ healthy personal behaviors-especially alcohol
tions, and poor motivation of facility managers consumption and cigarette smoking. In recent
and health care workers. Private providers-. years real government spending for health has
mainly religious nongovernmental organizations fallen dramatically in the course of the transition to
(NGOs) in Africa and private doctors and un­ more market-oriented economies. The public sec­
licensed practitioners in South Asia-are often tor has suffered from serious shortages of drugs
more technically efficient than the public sector and equipment and a lack of skills to manage
and offer a service that is perceived to be of higher changing health institutions. The consequences
quality, but they are not supported by government have been declining staff morale and falling qual­
policies. In low-income countries the poor often ity of care.

4


--- Page 19 ---
The roles of the government and of the market ill. A second has to do with "moral hazard": in­
in health surance reduces the incentives for individuals to
avoid risk and expense by prudent behavior and
Three rationales for a major government role in the can create both incentives and opportunities for
health sector should guide the reform of health doctors and hospitals to give patients more care
systems. than they need. A third has to do with the asym­
• Many health-related services such as informa­ metry in information between provider and pa­
tion and control of contagious disease are public tient concerning the outcomes of intervention;
goods. One person's use of health information does providers advise patients on choice of treatment,
not leave less available for others to consume; one and when the providers' income is linked to this
person cannot benefit from control of malaria­ advice, excessive treatment can result. As a conse­
carrying mosquitoes while another person in the quence of these last two considerations, in unregu­
same area is excluded. Because private markets lated private markets costs escalate without appre­
alone provide too little of the public goods crucial ciable health gains to the patient. Governments
for health, government involvement is necessary have an important role to play in regulating pri­
to increase the supply of these goods. Other health vately provided health insurance, or in mandating
services have large externalities: consumption by alternatives such as social insurance, in order to
one individual affects others. Immunizing a child ensure widespread coverage and hold down costs.
slows transmission of measles and other diseases, If governments do intervene, they must do so
conferring a positive externality. Polluters and intelligently, or they risk exacerbating the very
drunk drivers create negative health externalities. problems they are trying to solve. When govern­
Governments need to encourage behaviors that ments become directly involved in the health sec­
carry positive externalities and to discourage those tor-by providing public health programs or fi­
with negative externalities. nancing essential clinical services for the poor­
• Provision of cost-effective health services to policymakers face difficult decisions concerning
the poor is an effective and socially acceptable ap­ the allocation of public resources. For any given
proach to poverty reduction. Most countries view amount of total spending, taxpayers and, in some
access to basic health care as a human right. This countries, donors want to see maximum health
perspective is embodied in the goal, "Health for gain for the money spent. An important source of
All by the Year 2000," of the conference held by guidance for achieving value for money in health
the World Health Organization (WHO) and the spending is a measure of the cost-effectiveness of
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) at different health interventions and medical pro­
Alma-Ata in 1978, which launched today's pri­ cedures-that is, the ratio of costs to health bene­
mary health care movement. Private markets will fits (DALYs gained).
not give the poor adequate access to essential clini­ Until recently, little has been done to apply cost­
cal services or the insurance often needed to pay effectiveness analysis to health. This is, in part,
for such services. Public finance of essential clini­ because it is difficult. Cost and effectiveness data
cal care is thus justified to alleviate poverty. Such on health interventions are often weak. Costs vary
public funding can take several forms: subsidies to between countries and can rise or fall sharply as a
private providers and NGOs that serve the poor; service is expanded. Some groups of interventions
vouchers that the poor can take to a provider of are provided jointly, and their costs are shared.
their choice; and free or below-cost delivery of Nonetheless, cost-effectiveness analysis is already
public services to the poor. demonstrating its usefulness as a tool for choosing
• Government action may be needed to com­ among possible health interventions in individual
pensate for problems generated by uncertainty and countries and for addressing specific health prob­
insurance market failure. The great uncertainties sur­ lems such as the spread of AIDS.
rounding the probability of illness and the effica_cy Just because a particular intervention is cost­
of care give rise both to strong demand for insur­ effective does not mean that public funds should
ance and to shortcomings in the operation of pri­ be spent on it. Households can buy health care
vate markets. One reason why markets may work with their own money and, when well informed,
poorly is that variations in health risk create incen­ may do this better than governments can do it for
tives for insurance companies to refuse to insure them. But households also seek value for money,
the very people who most need health insurance­ and governments, by making information about
those who are already sick or are likely to become cost-effectiveness available, can often help im-

5


--- Page 20 ---
Box 1 Investing in health: key messages of this Report

This Report proposes a three-pronged approach to provements and a productive asset-better health - to
government policies for improving health. the poor.
Foster a11 cnvir011111ellf that e11ables llousellolds • Improve management of government health ser­
lo improve Ilea/Ill vices through such measures ,,s decentralization of ad­
ministrati\'l' and budgl'lary authority and contracting
Household decisions shape health, but these decisions out of services.
are constrained by the income and education of house­ Prcmrofe diversity a lilt competition
hold members. In addition to promoting overall L' Co­
nomic growth , governments can help to improvL' those Government finance of public health and of a nation­
decisions if they : ally defined package of e ssential clinical services would
• Pursue economic growth policies that will benefit leave the remaining cl ini cal services to be financed pri­
the poor (including, where necessary, adjustment poli­ vately or by social insurance within the context of a
cies that preserve cost-effective health expenditures) policy framework establishL•d by the government. Gov­
• Expand investment in schooling, particularly for ernments Ciln promote diversity and compl'lition in
girls provision of health services and insurance by adopting
• Promote the rights and status of women through polici e s that:
political and economic empowerment and legal protec­ • Encourage social or private insurance (with regula­
tion against abuse. tory incentives for equitable access and cost contain­
ment) for clinical services outside the ess~ntial
Improve govem11renf spe11di11g 011 health p<1ckage.
The challenge for most governments is to concentrate • Encourage suppliers (both public and private) to
resources on compensating for market failures and effi­ compL•te both to deliver clinical services and to provide
ciently financing services that will particularly benefit inputs, such as drugs , to publicly and privatL·Iy fi "
the poor. Several directions for policy respond to this nanced health services. Domestic suppliers should not
challenge: be protected from international competition.
• Reduce government expenditures on tertiary facil­ • Generate and disseminate information on pro­
ities, specialist training, and interventions that provide vider performance, on essential equipment and drugs,
little health gain for the money spent. on the costs and effectiveness of interventions, and on
• Finance and implement a package of public health the accredit,1tion status of institutions and providers.
interventions to deal with the substantial externalities Increased scientific knowledge has accounted for much
surrounding infectious disease control , prevention of of the dramatic improvement in health that hils oc­
AIDS , environmental pollution , and behaviors (such as curred in this century-by providing information that
drunk driving) that put others at risk. forms the basis of household and government action
• Finance and ensure delivery of a package of essen­ and by underpinning the development of preventive,
tial clinical services. The comprehensivenc·ss and com­ curative, and diagnostic technologies. lnvestml•nt in
position of such a package can only be defined by each continued scientific advance will amplify the effective­
country, taking into account epidemiological condi­ ness of e<1ch element of the three-pronged <1pproach
tions, local preferences, and income. In most countries proposed in this Report. Because thL' fruits of science
public finance, or publicly mandated finance, of the benefit all countries, internationaily collabor<1tive ef­
essential clinical package would provide a politically forts, of which there are several excellent exampll's,
acceptable mechanism for distributing both welfare im- will often be the right way to proceed .

prove the decisions of private consumers, pro­ portance of continued investment in scientific
viders, and insurers. advance.
Government policies for achieving health for all • Since overall economic growth-particularly
poverty-reducing growth-and education are cen­
This Report focuses primarily on the relation be­ tral to good health, governments need to pursue
tween policy choices, both inside and outside the sound macroeconomic policies that emphasize re­
health sector, and health outcomes, especially for duction of poverty. They also need to expand basic
the poor. Box 1 summarizes the Report's three key schooling, especially for girls, because the way in
messages for government policy and notes the im- which households, particularly mothers, use in­
formation and financial resources to shape their

6


--- Page 21 ---
dietary, fertility, health care, and other life-style The poor suffer far higher levels of mortality at all
choices has a powerful influence on the health of ages than do the rich.
household members.
• Governments in developing countries should
spend far less-on average, about 50 percent less­ Figure 3 Infant and adult mortality in poor
than they now do on less cost-effective interven­ and nonpoor neighborhoods of
tions and instead double or triple spending on ba­ Porto Alegre, Brazil, 1980
sic public health programs such as immunizations
and AIDS prevention and on essential clinical ser­ Infant mortality Adult mortality
vices . A minimum package of essential clinical ser­ (ages 45-64)
vices would include sick-child care, family plan­
ning, prenatal and delivery care, and treatment for Deaths per 1,000 Death s per year per 100,000
tuberculosis and STDs. Low-income countries live births persons in age group
would have to redirect current public spending for 50 2,000
health and increase expenditures (by government,
donors, and patients) to meet needs for public 40
health and the minimum package of essential clini­ 1,500
cal services for their populations; less reallocation
would be needed in middle-income countries. Ter­ 30
tiary care and less cost-effective services will con­ 1,000
tinue, but public subsidies to them, if they mainly
benefit the wealthy, should be phased out during a 20
transitional period.
• Because competition can improve quality and 10 500
drive down costs, governments should foster com­
petition and diversity in the supply of health ser­
vices and inputs, particularly drugs, supplies, and 0 0
equipment. This could include, where feasible, Infants Males Females
private supply of health care services paid for by • Nonpoor
governments or social insurance. There is also con­ • Poor
siderable scope for improving the quality and effi­
ciency of government health services through a Note: Poor neighborhoods were defined a cc ording to
combination of decentralization, performance­ specific criteria. They are, broadly, squntter settlements
based incentives for managers and clinicians, and with substandard housing and infrustru cture.
related training and development of management Source: Barcellos und others 1986.
systems . Exposing the public sector to competition
with private suppliers can help to spur such im­ countries in which average incomes rose by more
provements. Strong government regulation is also than 1 percent a year. Economic policies conducive
crucial, including regulation of privately delivered to sustained growth are thus among the most im­
health services to ensure safety and quality and of portant measures governments can take to im­
private insurance to encourage universal access to prove their citizens' health.
coverage and to discourage practices-such as fee­ Of these economic policies, increasing the in­
for-service payment to providers reimbursed by a come of those in poverty is the most efficacious for
"third-party" insurer-that lead to overuse of ser­ improving health. The reason is that the poor are
vices and escalation of costs. most likely to spend additional income in ways
Improving the economic environment that enhance their health: improving their diet, ob­
for healthy households taining safe water, and upgrading sanitation and
housing . And the poor have the greatest remain­
Advances in income and education have allowed ing health needs, as Figure 3 illustrates for Porto
households almost everywhere to improve their Alegre, Brazil. Government policies that promote
health. In the 1980s, even in countries in which equity and growth together will therefore be better
average incomes fell, death rates of children under for health than those that promote growth alone.
age 5 declined by almost 30 percent. But the child In the 1980s many countries undertook macro­
mortality rate fell more than twice as much in economic stabilization and adjustment programs

7


--- Page 22 ---
designed to deal with severe economic imbalances tions are currently saving an estimated 3 million
and move the countries onto sustainable growth lives a year. Social marketing of condoms to pre­
paths. Such adjustment is clearly needed for long­ vent transmission of human immunodeficiency vi­
run health gains. But during the transitional pe­ rus (HIV) has proved highly successful in Uganda,
riod, and especially in the earliest adjustment pro­ Zaire, and elsewhere. Information on the risks of
grams, recession and cuts in public spending smoking, and taxes on both tobacco and alcohol,
slowed improvements in health. This effect was are changing behavior in some countries-al­
less than originally feared, however-in part be­ though mostly, so far, in the richer countries.
cause earlier expenditures for improving health Governments need to expand these efforts and
and education had enduring effects. As a result of to move forward with other promising public
this experience, most countries' adjustment pro­ health initiatives. Several activities stand out be­
grams today try to rationalize overall government cause they are highly cost-effective: the cost of
spending while maintaining cost-effective expen­ gaining one DALY can be remarkably low-some­
ditures in health and education. Despite these im­ times less than $25 and often between $50 and
provements, much is still to be learned about more $150. Activities in this category include:
efficient ways of carrying out stabilization and ad­ • Immunizations
justment programs while protecting the poor. • School-based health services
Policies to expand schooling are also crucial for • Information and selected services for family
promoting health. People who have had more planning and nutrition
schooling seek and utilize health information more • Programs to reduce tobacco and alcohol
effectively than those with little or no schooling. consumption
This means that rapid expansion of educational • Regulatory action, information, and limited
opportunities-in part by setting a high minimum public investments to improve the household
standard of schooling (say, six full years) for all-is environment
a cost-effective way of improving health. Educa­ • AIDS prevention.
tion of girls and women is particularly beneficial to Intensified government support is required to
household health because it is largely women who extend the Expanded Programme on Immuniza­
buy and prepare food, maintain a clean home, care tion (EPI), which currently protects about 80 per­
for children and the elderly, and initiate contacts cent of the children in the developing world
with the health system. Beyond education, gov­ against six major diseases at a cost of about $1.4
ernment policies that support the rights and eco­ billion a year. Expanding EPI coverage to 95 per­
nomic opportunities of women also contribute to cent of all children would have a significant impact
overall household well-being and better health. on children in poor households, who make up a
disproportionately large share of those not yet
Investing in public health reached by the EPI. Other vaccines, particularly
and essential clinical services those for hepatitis B and yellow fever, could be
added to the six currently included in the EPI, as
The health gain per dollar spent varies enormously could vitamin A and iodine supplements. In most
across the range of interventions currently fi­developing countries such an "EPI Plus" cluster of
nanced by governments. Redirecting resources interventions in the first year of life would have
from interventions that have high costs per DALY the highest cost-effectiveness of any health mea­
gained to those that cost little could dramatically sure available in the world today.
reduce the burden of disease without increasing A second high priority for governments should
expenditures. A limited package of public health be to provide inexpensive and highly efficacious
measures and essential clinical interventions is a medications to treat school-age children afflicted
top priority for government finance; some govern­ with schistosomiasis, intestinal worm infections,
ments may wish, after covering that minimum for and micronutrient deficiencies. Treatment of these
everyone, to define their national essential pack­ conditions through distribution of medications
age more broadly. and micronutrient supplements in schools would
greatly improve the health, school attendance, and
Public health learning achievement of hundreds of millions of
children, at a cost of $1 to $2 per child per year. In
Government action in many areas of public health addition to treatment, schoolchildren can be
has already had an important payoff. lmmuniza- taught by their teachers or by radio about the hu-

8


--- Page 23 ---
man body and about avoiding risks to health-for gun to spread through human populations, it has
example, from smoking or unsafe sex. so far caused 2 million deaths and infected about
Governments need to encourage healthier be­ 13 million individuals. Some parts of the develop­
haviors on the part of individuals and households ing world are already heavily infected: in Sub­
by providing information on the benefits of breast­ Saharan Africa an average of one in forty adults
feeding and on how to improve children's diets. has the virus, and in certain cities the rate is one in
Programs in Colombia, Indonesia, and elsewhere three. In Thailand one adult in fifty is infected.
show the potential for success. Information on the More than 90 percent of the infected individuals
benefits of family planning and on the availability are in their economically most productive years,
of family planning services is also critical. Govern­ ages 15-40. They will be developing AIDS and
ment dissemination of this information can take a dying over the next decade. Projections of the fu­
number of creative forms, as the effective use of ture course of the epidemic are gloomy: conserva­
radio drama and folk theater in Kenya and Zim­ tive estimates from WHO are that by 2000, 26 mil­
babwe demonstrates. lion individuals will be HIV-infected and 1.8
Measures to control the use of tobacco, alcohol, million a year will die of AIDS. By destroying indi­
and other addictive substances-through informa­ viduals' immune systems, HIV will also vastly
tion campaigns, taxes, bans on advertising, and, worsen the spread of other diseases, especially tu­
in certain cases, import controls-can help sub­ berculosis. In highly affected areas demand for
stantially to reduce chronic lung disease, heart dis­ AIDS treatment will overwhelm capacity for clini­
ease, cancer, and injuries. Unless smoking behav­ cal treatment and cause a deterioration of care for
ior changes, three decades from now premature other illnesses.
deaths caused by tobacco in the developing world What governments need to do is clear: intervene
will exceed the expected deaths from AIDS, tuber­ early, before a major epidemic gets under way.
culosis, and complications of childbirth combined. Countries as diverse as Bangladesh, Ghana, and
Governments must do more to promote a Indonesia share the preconditions for rapid trans­
healthier environment, especially for the poor, mission of HIV-substantial numbers of pros­
who face greatly increased health risks from poor titutes and high rates of prevalence of other STDs,
sanitation, insufficient and unsafe water supplies, such as syphilis, gonorrhea, and chancroid, which
poor personal and food hygiene, inadequate gar­ facilitate the spread of the AIDS virus. Strong pub­
bage disposal, indoor air pollution, and crowded lic action is required to reduce HIV transmission.
and inferior housing. Collectively, these risks are Particularly important are efforts targeted to high­
associated with nearly 30 percent of the global bur­ risk groups: information to promote change in
den of disease. To help the poor improve their sexual behavior; distribution of condoms; and
household environments, governments can pro­ treatment for other STDs. Early reduction in HIV
vide a regulatory and administrative framework transmission by high-risk individuals is very cost­
within which efficient and accountable providers effective, but later in an AIDS epidemic the cost­
(often in the private sector) have an incentive to effectiveness of interventions declines substan­
offer households the services they want and are tially. Current expenditures on AIDS prevention
willing to pay for, including water supply, sanita­ in developing countries-totaling less than $200
tion, garbage collection, clean-burning stoves, and million a year-are woefully inadequate. Five to
housing. The government has a vital role in dis­ ten times this level of spending is needed to deal
seminating information about hygienic practices. with the emerging epidemic.
It can also improve the use of public resources by
eliminating widespread subsidies for water and Essential clinical services
sanitation that benefit the middle class. Govern­
ment legislation and regulations to increase secu­ The components of a package of essential clinical
rity of land tenure for the poor would encourage services of high cost-effectiveness will vary from
low-income families to invest more in safer, country to country, depending on local health
healthier housing. needs and the level of income. At a minimum, the
A special challenge for concerted public health package should include five groups of interven­
action is to reduce the spread of AIDS. The AIDS tions each of which addresses very large disease
epidemic has already become a dominant public burdens. The five groups are:
health concern in many countries. Although HIV, • Services to ensure pregnancy-related (prena­
the virus that causes AIDS, has only recently be- tal, childbirth, and postpartum) care; strength-

9


--- Page 24 ---
ened efforts could prevent most of the almost half­ broader range of interventions than this mtm­
million maternal deaths that occur each year in mum. At modest increases in spending, relatively
developing countries. cost-effective measures for the treatment of some
• Family planning services; improved access to common noncommunicable conditions could be
these services could save as many as 850,000 chil­ included. Examples are low-cost protocols for
dren from dying every year and eliminate as many treatment of heart disease using aspirin and anti­
as 100,000 of the maternal deaths that occur hypertensive drugs; treatment for cervical cancer;
annually. drug treatment of some psychoses; and removal of
• Tuberculosis control, mainly through drug cataracts.
therapy, to combat a disease that kills more than 2 Many health services have such low cost-effec­
million people annually, making it the leading tiveness that governments will need to consider
cause of death among adults. excluding them from the essential clinical package.
• Control of STDs, which account for more than In low-income countries these might include heart
250 million new cases of debilitating and some­ surgery; treatment (other than pain relief) of
times fatal illness each year. highly fatal cancers of the lung, liver, and stom­
• Care for the common serious illnesses of ach; expensive drug therapies for HIV infection;
young children-diarrheal disease, acute respira­ and intensive care for severely premature babies.
tory infection, measles, malaria, and acute malnu­ It is hard to justify using government funds for
trition-which account for nearly 7 million child these medical treatments at the same time that
deaths annually. much more cost-effective services which benefit
These clinical interventions are all highly cost­ mainly the poor are not adequately financed.
effective-often costing substantially less than $50 Widespread adoption of an essential clinical
per DALY gained. package would have a tremendous positive impact
A minimal package of essential clinical services on the health of people in developing countries. If
would also include some treatment for minor in­ 80 percent of the population were reached, 24 per­
fection and trauma and, for health problems that cent of the current burden of disease in low­
cannot be fully resolved with existing resources, income countries and 11 percent of that in middle­
advice and alleviation of pain. The provision of income countries could be averted (Table 2). The
hospital-based emergency care other than the in­ estimated impact of implementing the minimum
terventions mentioned above would depend on clinical services is more than twice that for the
day-to-day capacity and availability of resources. public health package outlined above; when com­
This emergency care includes, for example, treat­ bined with the public health package, the share of
ment of most fractures, as well as appendec­ current illness that could be eliminated rises to
tomies. Depending on resource availability and so­ perhaps 32 percent for low-income countries and
cial values, some countries may define their 15 percent for middle-income countries. This re­
essential clinical package to include a much duction in disease is equivalent, in terms of DALYs

Table 2 Estimated costs and health benefits of the minimum package of public health and essential
clinical services in low- and middle-income countries, 1990
(dollars per capita as a percentage reduction Cost Cost Approximate in burden
Group per year) of income per capita of disease (percent)
Low-income countries
(Income per capita = $350)
Public health 4.2 1.2 8
Essential clinical services a 7.8 2.2 24
Total 12.0 3.4 32
Middle-income countries
(Income per capita = $2,500)
Public health 6.8 0.3 4
Essential clinical services a 14.7 0.6 11
Total 21.5 0.9 15
a. The estimated costs and benefits are for a minimum essential package of clinical services, as defined in the text. Many countries may wish, if
they have the resources, to define their essential clinical package more broadly.
Source: World Bank calculations.

10


--- Page 25 ---
gained, to saving the lives of more than 9 million groups can lead to erosion of political support for
infants each year. the essential package and to decreased funding
and lower quality of care. Furthermore, problems
Paying for the package of cost escalation and access to insurance on the
part of high-risk groups can complicate private fi­
The most sophisticated facility required to deliver nance. For these reasons, in most member coun­
the minimum elements of the essential clinical tries of the Organization for Economic Coopera­
package is a district hospital. Providing services in tion and Development (OECD), governments
lower-level facilities allows costs to be contained at finance (or mandate the financing of) comprehen­
modest levels for minimal versions of the essential sively defined essential packages for virtually all
clinical package. The cost is about $8 per person their citizens.
each year in low-income countries and $15 in In low-income countries, where current public
middle-income countries. The cost differences are spending for health is less than the cost of an es­
the result of distinct demographic structures, epi­ sential package, some degree of targeting is inevi­
demiological conditions, and labor costs in the two table. If the wealthy are already opting out of gov­
settings. When the cost of the public health inter­ ernment-financed services because of the higher
ventions described above is added, total costs rise quality and convenience of privately financed ser­
to $12 per capita in low-income countries and $22 vices, targeting is fairly easy. Community-financ­
per capita in middle-income countries. ing schemes, whereby patients at local health cen­
Adoption of the package in all developing coun­ ters and pharmacies pay modest fees, are another
tries would require a quadrupling of expenditures option that can help both to improve the quality of
on public health, from $5 billion at present to $20 care and, when fees are retained and managed lo­
billion a year, and an increase from about $20 bil­ cally, to sustain services. A large number of coun­
lion to $40 billion in spending on essential clinical tries in Africa have had some early success with
services. In the poorest countries governments community financing as part of the Bamako Initia­
typically spend about $6 per person for health and tive led by UNICEF and WHO. Nonetheless, expe­
total health expenditures are about $14 per person. rience to date suggests that introduction of user
There, paying for an essential package will require fees at levels that do not discourage the poor is
a combination of increased expenditures by gov­ likely to be more useful for improving technical
ernments, donor agencies, and patients and some efficiency (for example, by facilitating drug sup­
reorientation of current public spending for ply) than for raising substantial revenues on ana­
health. In middle-income countries, where public tionwide basis.
spending for health averages $62 per person, the
$22 cost of the package is financially feasible if the Reforming health systems: promoting diversity
political commitment exists for shifting existing re­ and competition
sources away from discretionary services with
lower cost-effectiveness toward public health pro­ Ensuring basic public health services and essential
grams and essential clinical care. These major clinical care while the rest of the health system
changes cannot be made overnight, but it is impor­ becomes self-financed will require substantial
tant to start and complete them as swiftly as possi­ health system reforms and reallocations of public
ble, before interest groups and bureaucratic inertia spending. Only by reducing or eliminating spend­
undermine reform. ing on discretionary clinical services can govern­
A critical question in designing an essential clini­ ments concentrate on ensuring cost-effective clini­
cal package is the extent of government financing. cal care for the poor. One way to do so is by
Should governments pay for everyone, or only for charging fees to affluent patients who use govern­
the poor? The main problem with universal gov­ ment hospitals and services. In Chile, Kenya,
ernment financing is that it subsidizes the wealthy, Lesotho, and other countries governments are
who could afford to pay for their own services, increasing user fees for the wealthy and for those
and thus leaves fewer government resources for covered by insurance and are strengthening the
the poor. A policy requiring those who can pay all legal and administrative systems for billing pa­
or part of their own costs to do so may make sense tients and collecting revenues.
on equity grounds, but it also has disadvantages. Promoting self-financed insurance, thus elim­
Often, the administrative costs of targeting are inating large and inequitable subsidies to the more
high, and exclusion of wealthy and middle-income affluent groups who are covered by insurance,

11


--- Page 26 ---
would also help to free government funds for pub­ keep patients longer than necessary and are
lic health programs and essential clinical care. Sub­ poorly organized and managed. Countries pay too
sidies in the form of tax relief for contributions to much for drugs of low efficacy, and drugs and sup­
private insurance are equal to nearly a fifth of total plies are stolen or go to waste in government ware­
government spending for health in South Africa. houses and hospitals.
In Latin America subsidies to the social insurance In the short term, reforms in pharmaceutical us­
systems are widespread and include tax relief, di­ age offer the greatest gains in efficiency. Govern­
rect transfers to cover the operating deficits of so­ ments that have introduced competition in the
cial security health funds, and matching govern­ procurement of drugs have typically achieved sav­
ment funds for employee payroll contributions. ings of 40 to 60 percent. Governments can also
Where these subsidies benefit only the better-off in develop national essential drug lists, consisting of
society, they need to be scaled back. a limited number of inexpensive drugs that ad­
Reforms entail shifting new government spend­ dress the important health problems of the popu­
ing for health away from specialized personnel, lation. Many countries have such lists, but not all
equipment, and facilities at the apex of health sys­ use them to guide the selection and procurement
tems and "down the pyramid" toward the broad of drugs for the public sector. New treatment pro­
base of widely accessible care in community facili­ tocols and alternative uses of facilities can also
ties and health centers. Very few cost-effective in­ raise efficiency. Outpatient surgery can replace
terventions depend on sophisticated hospitals and some procedures customarily performed on an in­
specialized physicians-all the services contained patient basis, at considerable savings.
in the minimum essential clinical package pro­ In the long run, decentralization can help to in­
posed in this Report can be provided by health crease efficiency when there is adequate capacity
centers and district hospitals. Yet specialized facili­ and accountability at lower levels of the national
ties everywhere absorb a large amount of public health system. Some countries, such as Botswana
resources, a problem that has frequently been ex­ and Ghana, have delegated a wide range of man­
acerbated by donor investments in tertiary care fa­ agement responsibilities to regional and district­
cilities. In the 1980s Papua New Guinea, to correct level offices of the ministry of health; others,
overconcentration of resources on higher-level fa­ including Chile and Poland, have devolved au­
cilities, limited public spending on hospitals to 40 thority and resources to local government agen­
percent of the recurrent budget of the Ministry of cies. Their experience provides evidence that
Health-well below the level in most developing success is possible-but also that hasty and
countries. unplanned decentralization, sometimes purely in
Governments need to use more effective policies response to political pressures, can create new
for financing training (including use of national problems.
service mechanisms) to help meet the need for pri­ Greater reliance on the private sector to deliver
mary care providers, particularly nurses and mid­ clinical services, both those that are included by a
wives, and for public health, health policy, and country in its essential package and those that are
management personnel. At the same time, gov­ discretionary, can help raise efficiency. The private
ernments should limit or eliminate subsidies for sector already serves a large and diverse clientele
specialist training. Increased government support in developing countries and often delivers services
for health information systems and operations re­ of higher quality without the long lines and inade­
search would help to guide public policies for quate supplies frequently found in government fa­
health. Estimates of the national burden of disease cilities. In many countries private doctors and
along the lines of the global burden of disease pharmacies face unnecessary legal and administra­
methodology used in this Report, and local infor­ tive barriers, and these need to be removed. But
mation on the cost-effectiveness of different inter­ the tendency for profit-making providers to over­
ventions, would enable governments to establish prescribe drugs, procedures, and diagnostics
health priorities. needs to be countered; encouraging the for-profit
In every developing country decisive steps are sector to move away from fee-for-service to pre­
needed to correct the pervasive inefficiency of clin­ paid coverage (through, for example, encouraging
ical health programs and facilities and especially of health maintenance organizations) is one feasible
government services. Clinics and outreach pro­ approach.
grams operate poorly because of shortages of Governments could also subsidize private
drugs, transport, and maintenance. Hospitals health care providers who deliver essential clinical

12


--- Page 27 ---
services to the poor. This is already beginning to private health maintenance organizations and in
happen and needs to go further. In many African the British National Health Service. Another is for
countries, including Malawi, Uganda, and Zam­ insurers jointly to negotiate uniform fees with doc­
bia, governments subsidize the operating expendi­ tors and hospitals, as is done in Japan's social in­
tures of church hospitals and clinics in rural areas surance system and Zimbabwe's private medical
and the training of their health personnel. In Ban­ aid insurance system; or insurers themselves can
gladesh, Kenya, Thailand, and other countries .. set fixed payments for specified medical diag­
governments, with assistance from donors, are noses, as in Brazil. Yet a third approach, which has
supporting the work of traditional birth attendants been tested on a limited scale in the United States,
in safe pregnancy and delivery care and of tradi­ is "managed competition." This scheme pursues
tional healers in controlling infectious diseases the three objectives of cost-effective health spend­
such as malaria, diarrhea, and AIDS. ing, universal insurance coverage, and cost con­
Regulation is an essential element of govern­ tainment simultaneously through tightly regulated
ment efforts to encourage private health care sup­ competition among companies that provide a spe­
pliers. In most countries, governments have an cified package of health care for a fixed annual fee.
important role to play in ensuring the quality of Each of these approaches has proved workable,
private sector health care-through accreditation but each also has its limits and disadvantages.
of hospitals and laboratories, licensing of medical There are no simple answers for health
schools and physicians, regulation of drugs, and policy makers.
reviews of medical practices. Some countries in
which the government's ability to regulate is par­ An agenda for action
ticularly weak could explore self-regulation for
health care providers, while building up govern­ Adoption of the main policy recommendations of
ment capacity. In Brazil experiments with self­ this Report by developing country governments
regulation for local hospital associations and medi­ would enormously improve the health status of
cal ethics boards are now under way. their people, especially poor households, and
Government regulation of insurance is equally would also help to control health care spending
important. In some countries part of the popula­ (Table 3). Millions of lives and billions of dollars
tion is denied insurance because of selection bias could be saved. Implementation of the public
under private voluntary insurance. In the United health and essential clinical care packages, pursuit
States millions of people with high health risks­ of economic growth strategies that reduce poverty,
and thus high need for health insurance-are un­ and increased imrestment in schooling for girls
able to obtain affordable coverage. Some types of would have the largest payoffs in averting deaths
insurance schemes also seem to contribute to and reducing disability. Scaling back public spend­
pushing up health care costs; this is particularly ing for tertiary care facilities, specialist training,
true of third-party systems and of systems that and clinical care with lower cost-effectiveness
reimburse hospitals and physicians item by item would help to increase the effectiveness of health
for any and all services performed. In both the spending. So would encouragement of competi­
Republic of Korea, which relies on universal social tion in delivery of health services and regulation of
insurance, and the United States, which uses insurance and of provider payment systems.
mostly private insurance, health care already ab­ These recommendations will facilitate progress
sorbs an unusually high share of GNP-and costs toward the goal contained in the declaration from
are still rising. During the 1980s, for example, the historic 1978 Alma-Ata conference: "The at­
health expenditures in Korea increased from 3.7 to tainment of all peoples of the world by the year
almost 7 percent of GNP, in large part because of 2000 of a level of health that will permit them to
expansion of third-party insurance coverage com­ lead a socially and economically productive life."
bined with fee-for-service provider compensation. Continued momentum toward this goal was pro­
To eliminate selection bias and expand insur~ vided by the 1990 World Summit for Children. Al­
ance coverage, governments can require insurers most 150 countries have now signed commitments
to pool risks across large numbers of people. To to specific goals for their countries to improve the
control costs, governments have a number of op­ health of children and women (Box 2). These goals
tions for limiting payments to health providers. include reduction of child mortality rates by one­
One approach is to encourage prepayment of a third (or to 70 per 1,000 births, whichever would
fixed amount for each person, as is now done in be less) over the course of the decade of the 1990s,

13


--- Page 28 ---
Table 3 Contribution of policy change to objectives for the health sector

Contribution to goals

Government objectives and policies

Foster au enabling environm e11t for llousellolds to improve h ealt/1

Pursue e conomic growth policies that benefit the poor

Exp11nd investment in educ11tion, particularly for females
Promote the rights 11nd status of women through political and
economic empowerment and legal protection against abuse

Improve govemment investm ents i11 l1ealt11
Reduc e government exp e nditures for tertiary care facilities,
speci a list training, and discretionar y services
Finance and e nsure delivery of a public health pack11ge, including
AIDS prevention
Finan ce and en s ure delivery of essential clinical services , at lea st to
the poor

Improve the man<1gement of public health services

Facilitate involveme11t by tl1 e private sector
Encourag e private finance a nd provision of insurance (with
inc entives to contain costs) for a ll discretionary clinical services
Encourage private sector delivery of clinical servi ces (including
those that arc publicly financed)

Provide information on performance and cost

• Very favorable II F11 vorable D Somewhat favorable D No impact expected

reduction of maternal mortality rates by half, erad ­ nancing of essential clinical services should be at
ication of polio, and major reductions in morbidity the top of the policy agenda . In most middle ­
and mortality from several other diseases . Com­ income countries these policies are still germane ,
mitments to specific improvements in education, but reducing public subsidies for insurance and
nutrition , water supply, and sanitation were also discretionary care would also yield large benefits
made. These commitments underscore the politi­ and should therefore be a key element of policy
cal potential of action agendas for improving change . In the formerly socialist economies there
health . are two particularly crucial policy areas-improv­
The relevance of the main recommendations of ing the management of government health ser­
this Report varies from one setting to another . In vices and developing sustainable health-financing
low-income countries renewed emphasis on basic s ystems that maintain universal coverage while
schooling for girls, strengthening of public health encouraging competition among cost-conscious
programs , and support for expanded public fi-suppliers .

14


--- Page 29 ---
Box 2 The World Summit for Children

The declaration and plan of action adoptt>d at the gets and external aid if prioriti es .for human devdop­
World Summit for C hildrL' n, held in New York in 1990 , ment are to be met. The health goals of the summit's
incorporate a politically salient ,,genda for health. The plan of action include:
summit focused, in p.uticular, on the needs of children • The L'radication of polio by 2000
and women but w .1s sl't in the bro .1der context of hu­ • The elimination of neonatal tetanus b y 1995
man and community goals. The seventy-one heads of • A 90 percent reduction in measles cases and a 95
state who attended and the seventy-seven more who percent reduction in measles deaths
subsequently signed the declaration committed their • Achievement (by 2000) and maintenanc e of at least
countries to developing national progr.1ms of a c tion 90 percent immunization cover,1ge of one -year-o ld chil­
(NPAs) for achieving these goals. To date, ,,bout dren, as well as universal tetanus immuni za tion for
eighty-five countries h .we drawn up NPAs, and ,,n ­ women of childbearing ,,ge
other sixty are in thL' process of prep .1ring them . • A halving of child deaths caused by diarrhea and . a
NPAs typically cover, ,,mung other concerns, pri­ one-quarter reduction in the incidence of diarrheal
mary health care, family planning, safe water, environ­ disease
mental sanitation, nutrition, and basic education. Be­ • A reduction by one-third in child deaths caused by
cause oftheir concentration on the welfare of children , acute respiratory infections
NPAs a re able to transcend political differences. They • Virtual elimination of vitamin A deficiency and io­
offer a means of mobili z ing the whoiL' of civil soci ety ­ dine deficiency disorders
neighborhood and civic associations, religious groups • A reduction in the incidence of low · birth we ight
and professional bodies, businesses, voluntary agen­ (2.5 kilograms or less) to no more than 10 percent
cies, organized labor , and universities-in the c ause of • A one-third reduction fn1m 1990 levels in iron d e fi­
investment for health. ciency anL'mia among women
NPAs are being integrated into national develop­ • Access for all women to prenatal care, trained at­
ment planning . They set forth measurable , attainable tendants during childbirth, and referral for high-risk
goals - to be met by 2000 or earlier - that are adapted to pregnancies and obstetric emergenc ies .
the realities of the country. By quantifying the re­The agenda for action of the children's health summit
sources required to ac hieve these goals, NPAs help to is broadly consistent with the messages of this Report.
identify the changes that are needed in national bud-

At first glance, it might appear that adoption of central hospitals and has concentrated on improv­
this Report's major recommendations will be easy . ing health centers and other district-level infra­
To reach most people living in the developing structure. Tunisia has converted eleven large gov­
world with the minimum package of cost-effective ernment hospitals to semiautonomous institutions
public health and essential clinical services, about with strong incentives for improved performance .
half of current government expenditures on other, During the 1980s Chile delegated responsibility for
more discretionary care would have to be redi­ its entire primary clinical care system to local gov­
rected. But in reality, change will be difficult, since ernments and fostered more public and private
an array of interest groups may stand to lose­ competition in health service delivery and in in­
from suppliers of medical services to rich benefici­ surance. Costa Rica and Korea achieved universal
aries of public subsidies to protected drug com­ health coverage through social insurance.
panies. Many of the changes will take years to im­ The international community can do more to
plement because they mean a major redirection of support health policy reforms. In 1990 donors dis­
public resources and require the development of bursed about $4.8 billion of assistance for health,
new institutional capabilities. or about 2 . 5 percent of all health spending in de­
A number of developing countries have already veloping countries. The share of total develop­
shown in recent years that broad reforms in the ment aid for health declined slightly in the 1980s,
health sector are possible when there is sufficient from 7 to 6 percent, despite widespread calls for
political will and when changes to the health sys­ increased investment in human resource develop­
tem are designed and implemented by capable ment, including health . As an immediate first
planners and managers . Zimbabwe has imposed a step, donors need to restore this share to its former
decade-long moratorium on new investments in level. A more substantial increase can be easily

15


--- Page 30 ---
justified, given the importance of health in reduc­ essential clinical care-especially for tuberculosis
ing poverty and the large gap between current and control, the EPI Plus program, AIDS prevention,
needed spending for public health programs and and reduction of tobacco consumption-would be
minimum clinical services. An additional $2 billion a significant contribution to policy reform. So
a year from donors would meet about one-quarter would support for capacity-building. Countries
of the costs of stabilizing the AIDS epidemic ($500 that are willing to undertake major changes in
million) and one-sixth of the extra resources health policy should be strong candidates for in­
needed to provide the public health and clinical creased aid, including donor financing of recurrent
care package for low-income countries ($1.5 billion costs. An increasing number of donors, among
of the $10 billion required). them the World Bank, are now supporting this
Increased external assistance for health research kind of broad sectoral reform. Stronger donor co­
that focuses on the major health problems of de­ ordination, especially at the level of individual de­
veloping countries-such as the search for new an­ veloping country clients, would improve the posi­
timalarial drugs and new or improved vaccines­ tive impact of aid on health, as shown by the
could have a very high payoff and would build on experience of Bangladesh, Senegal, and
the comparative advantage of donor countries in Zimbabwe.
conducting scientific research. That most health The benefits to the developing world from
research benefits many countries further justifies adopting sound policies for health are enormous.
donor support, particularly through such effective There is great potential for change during the
internationally collaborative mechanisms as the closing years of this decade as more countries en­
Special Programme for Research and Training in courage broad political participation and public ac­
Tropical Diseases. countability, as levels of education and knowledge
Donors and developing country governments improve, and as understanding of human biology,
can also do much to improve the effectiveness of public health, and health care systems increases. If
aid for health. This is especially important in low­ the right policy choices are made, the payoff will
income Africa, where aid already accounts for an be high. The momentum of past reductions in the
average 20 percent of health spending-and for burden of infectious disease in developing coun­
over half in Burundi, Chad, Guinea-Bissau, tries can be maintained and accelerated. The AIDS
Mozambique, and Tanzania. Even in other devel­ epidemic can be slowed or reversed. The emerging
oping regions, where aid amounts to 2 percent or problems of noncommunicable disease in aging
less of health expenditures, better targeting and populations can be managed without rapid in­
management of this assistance can catalyze policy creases in health expenditures. In the end, this will
change. translate into longer, healthier, and more produc­
Redirecting donor money from hospitals and tive lives for people around the world, especially
specialist training to public health programs and the more than 1 billion now living in poverty.

16


--- Page 31 ---
Health in developing countries:
successes and challenges

On October 22, 1977, Ali Maow Maalin, a twenty­ Few investments of any kind generate human
three-year-old cook living in the town of Merca, and financial benefits on that scale . Yet in many
Somalia, developed a fever and rash that was sub­ ways the Intensified Smallpox Eradication Pro­
sequently diagnosed as smallpox . Vaccination gramme exemplifies the potential of today ' s medi­
teams immediately descended on Merca and cine. Around the world , the past half century has
within three weeks had vaccinated more than seen startling improvements in health . Progress in
50,000 people. They also began an intensive search drugs, vaccines, epidemiological knowledge, and
for other cases in Merca and along the road and organizational experience continually expands the
footpaths leading to it. By December 29 the World range of options for tomorrow. Tools and methods
Health Organization (WHO) had removed Merca for combating and eliminating much of the re­
from its list of potential outbreaks of smallpox and maining burden of disease are now affordable,
had initiated a two-year surveillance for the dis­ even by the poorest countries. Good policy, how­
ease throughout the Horn of Africa . It turned out, ever, is essential for achieving good health . Some
however, that Mr. Maalin had experienced the countries have made full use of the potential of
world's last case of smallpox. He survived, and medicine; others have barely tapped it, despite
WHO's twelve-year-long Intensified Smallpox heavy spending. This Report draws from this var­
Eradication Programme was brought to a trium­ ied experience lessons that will assist policymakers
phant end . in realizing the enormous potential returns from
In 1967, the year when the program began, their countries' investments in health .
somewhere between 1.5 million and 2 million peo­
ple died from smallpox . Perhaps half a million Why health matters
more were blinded, and more than 10 million were
seriously and permanently disfigured . In the early Good health, as people know from their own ex­
1950s the toll from smallpox had been three or four perience , is a crucial part of well-being , but spend­
times greater. Then more and more countries un­ ing on health can also be justified on purely eco­
dertook vaccination programs, and by the time the nomic grounds. Improved health contributes to
global program began, the disease had been vir­ economic growth in four ways: it reduces produc­
tually eradicated in 125 countries . Even so, the cos_t tion losses caused by worker illness; it permits the
of smallpox vaccination, quarantine programs, use of natural resources that had been totally or
and treatment totaled more than $300 million in nearly inaccessible because of disease; it increases
1968 alone. The eradication program , by contrast, the enrollment of children in school and makes
cost $300 million over the whole of its twelve-year them better able to learn ; and it frees for alterna­
life and has therefore saved hundreds of millions tive uses resources that would otherwise have to
of dollars a year in direct, measurable costs, as well be spent on treating illness . The economic gains
as unquantifiable amounts of human suffering. are relatively greater for poor people, who are typ-

17


--- Page 32 ---
ically most handicapped by ill health and who ability in their income. In Paraguay, for example,
stand to gain the most from the development of farmers in malarious areas choose to grow crops
underutilized natural resources. that are of lower value but that can be worked
outside the malaria season.
Gains in worker productivity
Improved utilization of natural resources
The most obvious sources of gain are fewer work
days lost to illness, increased productivity, greater Some health investments raise the productivity of
opportunities to obtain better-paying jobs, and land. In Sri Lanka the near-eradication of malaria
longer working lives. To take a classic example, during 1947-77 is estimated to have raised national
leprosy is a disease that affects people in the prime income by 9 percent in 1977. The cumulative cost
of life, with peak incidence rates among young was $52 million, compared with a cumulative gain
adults. As many as 30 percent of those affected in national income over the thirty-one years of $7.6
may be seriously deformed, and their working billion, implying a spectacular benefit-cost ratio of
lives will be shortened as well. A study of lepers in more than 140. Areas previously blighted by mos­
urban Tamil Nadu, India, estimates that the elim­ quitoes became attractive for settlement; migrants
ination of deformity would more than triple the moved in, and output increased. In Uganda mas­
expected annual earnings of those with jobs. The sive migration to fertile but underexploited land
prevention of deformity in all of India's 645,000 followed the partial control of river blindness (on­
lepers would have added an estimated $130 mil­ chocerciasis) in the 1950s. The Onchocerciasis
lion to the country's 1985 GNP. This amount is the Control Programme, conducted in eleven coun­
equivalent of almost 10 percent of all the official tries of the Sahel, is a more recent example of the
development assistance received by India in 1985. same benefits (see Box 1.1).
Yet leprosy accounted for only a small proportion
of the country's disease burden, less than 1 per­ Benefits in the next generation through education
cent in 1990.
Healthier workers earn more because (as re­ There is no question that schooling pays off in
search in Bangladesh has demonstrated) they are higher incomes. Four years of primary education
more productive and can get better-paying jobs. In boosts farmers' annual productivity by 9 percent
Cote d'Ivoire daily wage rates are estimated to be on average, and workers who do better at school
19 percent lower, on average, among men who are earn more. Studies in Ghana, Kenya, Pakistan,
likely to lose a day of work per month because of and Tanzania indicate that workers who scored 10
illness than among healthier men. percent above the sample mean on various cogni­
When illness strikes, an individual's lost output tive tests have a wage advantage ranging from 13
and earnings often go undetected in economic sta­ to 22 percent; in Nepal farmers with better mathe­
tistics because they are borne by the household. In matical skills are more likely to adopt profitable
many developing countries unemployment (or new crops.
disability) insurance is rare, and healthier mem­ Poor health and nutrition reduce the gains of
bers of the household work harder or longer to schooling in three areas: enrollment, ability to
make up for the loss in income. In a sample of 250 learn, and participation by girls. Children who en­
Sudanese households, each of which lost, on aver­ joy better health and nutrition during early child­
age, forty working hours per year because of ma­ hood are more ready for school and more likely to
laria alone, this extra work made up for 68 percent enroll. A study in Nepal has found that the proba­
of the lost agricultural labor. Similar findings have bility of attending school is only 5 percent for nu­
come from research in Paraguay and Colombia. tritionally stunted children, compared with 27 per­
In the long run, the benefits of improved health cent for those at the norm.
are also likely to influence the way work is orga­ Health and nutrition problems affect a child's
nized and carried out. With a healthy work force, ability to learn. Nutritional deficiencies in early
employers can reduce the costs of building slack childhood can lead to lasting problems: iron defi­
into their production schedules, invest more in ciency anemia reduces cognitive function, iodine
staff training, and exploit the benefits of specializa­ deficiency causes irreversible mental retardation,
tion. Similar gains are likely among farmers, who and vitamin A deficiency is the primary cause of
often hedge against sickness by being risk-averse; blindness among children. Older children are sub­
they forgo higher output in return for less vari- ject to other kinds of disease. In a recent study in

18


--- Page 33 ---
Box 1.1 Controlling river blindness

Onchocerciasis, or river blindness as it is more com­ a team of entomologists, epidemiologists, field staff,
monly known, is caused by a parasitic worm which and pilots; 97 percent of the staff are nationals of the
produces millions of larvae that move through the participating countries. The World Bank organizes the
body, causing intense itching, debilitation, and eventu­ finances and manages them through a trust fund. It
ally blindness. The disease is spread by a small, fiercely also supports socioeconomic development in the areas
biting blackfly that transmits the larvae from infected to affected by the disease .
uninfected people. The program is widely regarded as a great success. It
The goals of the Onchocerciasis Control Programme protects from river blindn e ss about 30 million people,
(OCP), set up in 1974 and covering eleven Sahelian including more than 9 million children born since the
countries, are to control the blackfly by destroying its ocr began, at an annual cost of less than $1 per per­
larvae with insecticides sprayed from the air. The envi­ son. More than 1.5 million people who were once seri­
ronmental impact of the insecticides is continuously ously infected have completely recovered. It is esti­
monitored by an independent ecological committee, in mated that the program will have prevented at least
cooperation with the national governments. The com­ 500,000 cases of blindness by the time it is wound up
mittee has full authority to screen insecticides and to around the end of the century. And it is already freeing
approve or reject their use. The program has also col­ approximately 25 million hectares of previously
laborated with the pharmaceutical industry to develop blighted land for resettlement and cultivation , boosting
for human use a drug, ivermectin, . that safely and effec­ agricultural production.
tively kills the larvae in the body. Ivermectin , however, The estimated cost of the OCP during the whole of
has little impact on the adult worm and so must be its existence, from 1974 to 2000, is about $570 million.
supplemented with vector .control by aerial spraying. Its estimated internal rate of return is in the range of 16
The producer of ivermectin, Merck & Co., has commit­ to 28 percent (depending on the pace at which the
ted itself to provide the drug free of charge as long as it newly available land is settled , the incremental output
is needed to combat river blindness. added by the new land, the income level of the ocr
The OCP's four sponsoring agencies-the Food and area, and the productivity growth rate that is pro­
Agriculture Organization, the United Nations Devel­ jected). These estimated benefits do not include the
opment Programme (UNDP), the World Bank, and program's favorable effects on income distribution; its
WHO-through a steering committee chaired by th e main beneficiaries are subsistence farmers whose in­
World Bank, make broad policy decisions and oversee comes are well below average.
operations. WHO has executive responsibility through

Jamaica children with moderate whipworm infec­ Girls are particularly liable to suffer from iodine
tion scored 15 percent lower before treatment than or iron deficiency-reasons why fewer of them
uninfected children in the same school. When re­ complete primary school. Other health-related
tested after treatment, those same children did al­ reasons include dropping out as a result of preg­
most as well as the uninfected children. nancy and parental concern about sexual violence.
In a sample of children in a poverty-stricken In societies where girls' education is given lower
area of northeast Brazil, inadequately nourished priority than boys', girls miss school because they
children lagged 20 percent behind the average gain have to stay home to look after sick relatives.
in achievement score over a two-year period. The
same study also shows the harm done by a simple Reduced costs of medical care
and easily remedied handicap: children with bad
eyesight lagged 27 percent behind the average Spending that reduces the incidence of disease can
gain over the two years. Both groups had below­ produce big savings in treatment costs . For some
average promotion rates and above-average drop­ diseases the expenditure pays for itself even when
out rates. In China a child at the twentieth percen-­ all the indirect benefits-such as higher labor pro­
tile in height-for-age (a sign of poor health) aver­ ductivity and reduced pain and suffering-are ig­
ages about one-third of a year behind the grade nored. Polio is one example. Calculations for the
normally reached by children of that age. In Thai­ Americas made prior to the eradication of polio in
land children whose height-for-age is 10 percent the region showed that investing $220 million over
below average are 14 percent lower in grade fifteen years to eliminate the disease would pre­
attainment. vent 220,000 cases and save between $320 million

19


--- Page 34 ---
Box 1.2 The economic impact of AIDS

The AIDS epidemic, through its effects on savings and That AIDS kills so many skilled a dults adds to its
produ ctivity, poses a threat to economic growth in economic impact. At a large hospital in Kinshasa, for
man y countri e s that are already in distress . World Bank example, more than 1 percent per year of the health
simulations indicate a slowing of growth of income per personnel, including highly trained staff, become in ­
capita by an average 0 .6 percentage point a year in the fected (through sexual rather than occupational con ­
ten worst-affected countries in Sub-Saharan Africa . In tact) . Among the (largely male) employees at a Kin­
Tanzania, where income per capita has already fallen shasa textile mill, managers had a higher infection rate
0.2 percent a ye ar in recent years, the estimated slow­ than foremen, who in turn had a higher rate than
down ranges between 0 .1 and 0.8 percentage point, workers. The cost of replacing skilled workers will be
depending on the assumptions used. In Malawi, which substantial. A study of Thailand estimates that through
has had a recent growth rate of 0.9 percent a year, the 2000 the cost of replacing long-haul truckers lost to
simulated reduction ranges from 0 .3 to 0 .5 percentage AIDS will be $8 million, and another study, of Tan ­
point. These calculations include the effect of the epi­ zania, projects the cost of replacing teachers at $40 mil ­
demic on population growth, which will slow slightly lion through 2010.
in severely affected countrie s. Th e death of an adult can tip vulnerable households
The heavy macroeconomic impact of AIDS comes into poverty . Even in Tanzania, where the government
partly from the high costs of treatment, which divert pays a large share of health costs, a World Bank study
resources from productive investments . Tanzanian cli­ shows that affected rural households in 1991 spent
nicians estimate that, on average, an HIV-infected $60-roughly the equivalent of annual rural income per
adult suffers 17 episodes of HIV-related illnesses prior capita-on tr eatment and funerals . The study also
to death and a child suffers 6 .5 episodes. Depending showed that the effects of losing an adult persist into
on how much medical care a patient gets, in the typical the next generation as children are withdrawn from
developing country the total cost per adult death school to help at hom e. School attendance of young
ranges from 8 to 400 percent of annual income per cap­ people ages 15-20 is reduced by half if the household
ita; the average is about 150 percent of annual income has lost an adult female member in the previous year.
per capita.

and $1.3 billion (depending on the number of peo­ previously uninfected person every four years . At
ple treated) in annual treatment costs . The pro­ this rate , there will be six HIV-positive persons in
gram's net return, after discounting at even as 2000 for every one today . If the transmission rate
much as 12 percent a year, was calculated to be could be slowed to one every five years, that num­
between $18 million and $480 million. ber could be reduced to only four infected persons
AIDS is another example. Although it remains in 2000 for every one today. The corresponding
much less common in the developing world than reduction in medical costs, after discounting at 3
diseases such as malaria, its economic impact per percent a year, amounts to $750 by 2000 for each
case is greater for two reasons: it mainly affects currently HIV-positive person in India, for a total
adults in their most productive years , and the in­ saving of $750 million . Similar calculations for
fections resulting from it lead to heavy demand for Thailand suggest savings of $1,250 per currently
expensive health care (Box 1 .2). For example, be­ HIV-positive person, for a potential total of $560
cause individuals with AIDS are typically more million.
prone to pneumonia, diarrhea, and tuberculosis, Health investments and poverty
the cost of medical care is high even though there
is no effective treatment as yet for the disease it­ The goal of reducing poverty provides a different
self . Research in nine developing and seven high­ but equally powerful case for health investments.
income countries suggests that preventing a case The adverse effects of ill health are greatest for
of AIDS saves, on average, about twice GNP per poor people, mainly because they are ill more of­
capita in discounted lifetime costs of medical care; ten , but partly because their income depends ex­
in some urban areas the saving may be as much as clusively on physical labor and they have no sav­
five times GNP per capita . Calculations for India ings to cushion the blow . They may therefore find
show that, given prevailing transmission patterns, it impossible to recover from an illness with their
each currently HIV-positive person infects one human and financial capital intact .

20


--- Page 35 ---
The health consequences of poverty are severe: of growth in income per capita between 1960 and
the poor die younger and suffer more from disabil­ 1990 in about seventy countries to the initial level
ity. In Porto Alegre, Brazil, adult mortality rates in of national income, the initial educational level,
poor areas in the late 1980s were 75 percent higher and an indicator of initial health status (the child
than in rich areas, and in Sao Paulo rates were two mortality rate, used in this Report to mean the risk
to three times higher for nonprofessionals than for of dying by age 5 per 1,000 live births). The health
professionals. In the late 1970s among Kenyan status indicator is found to be a highly significant
families in which the mother had no schooling, the predictor of economic performance. For the aver­
probability of dying by age 2 averaged 184 per age country in the sample, the annual growth rate
1,000 in regions where half of the families lived of income per capita is 1.40 percent and the child
below the poverty line but 100 per 1,000 in regions mortality rate is 116 per 1,000. An otherwise aver­
where only one-fifth of the families lived in pov­ age country with a child mortality rate of 106
erty. The poor are exposed to greater risks from would have a growth rate of income per capita of
unhealthy and dangerous conditions, both at 1.55 percent, whereas one with a child mortality
home and at work. Malnourishment and the leg­ rate of 126 would have a growth rate of 1.26
acy of past illness mean that they are more likely to percent.
fall ill and slower to recover, especially as they Not surprisingly, the health status variable is
have little access to health care. strongly correlated with educational stock, but the
When a family's breadwinner becomes ill, other significant association between income growth
members of the household may at first cope by and health remains strong and of similar magni­
working harder themselves and by reducing con­ tude across time periods and for a range of model
sumption, perhaps even of food. Both adjust­formulations. Although it is possible that unob­
ments can harm the .health of the whole family. If served factors such as government capacity to im­
free health care is not available, the costs of treat­ plement effective policies could explain the appar­
ment may drive a household deeper into debt. Al­ ent association, the data do suggest that better
though ill health is only one of many factors that health means more rapid growth.
can cause financial distress, its potential for disas­
ter means that it should be explicitly recognized in The record of success
formulating policies. Investments to reduce health
risks among the poor and provision of insurance Mortality started to decline in Europe, North
against catastrophic health care costs are impor­ America, and Australasia about two centuries ago,
tant elements in a strategy for reducing poverty. but slowly at first. A century ago life expectancy in
Spending on health is a productive investment: the United States, then the world's richest coun­
it can raise incomes, particularly among the poor, try, was only forty-nine years, and child mortality
and it reduces the toll of human suffering from ill was about 180 per 1,000. The rate of improvement
health. Good health, however, is a fundamental accelerated in the first half of this century; by 1950
goal of development as well as a means of acceler­ life expectancy in the United States had increased
ating it. Targeting health as part of development to sixty-six years, and child mortality had fallen to
efforts is an effective way to improve welfare in 34 per 1,000. Progress was also being made in de­
low-income countries. Evidence gathered over the veloping countries: in Chile, for example, life ex­
past thirty years indicates that in health, unlike pectancy increased from thirty-seven years in 1930
income, the gap between poor and rich countries to forty-nine in 1950, and child mortality fell from
has been narrowing. 350 to 209 per 1,000.

Putting the effects together Mortality transitions since 1950

The detrimental effects of poor health on individ­ Health conditions around the world have im­
uals and households and on the use of resources proved more in the past forty years than in all
suggest that better health should lead to better previous human history. Life expectancy at birth
economic performance at the national level. A in developing countries increased from forty to
number of analyses have found a positive relation­ sixty-three years, and child mortality fell from 280
ship between growth of income per capita and the to 106 per 1,000. In a high-income country life ex­
initial national educational stock. A similar analy­ pectancy is more than seventy-five years; in a low­
sis carried out for this Report examines the relation mortality developing country it is seventy years or

21


--- Page 36 ---
Child mortality has fallen sharply in the past thirty years, with particularly rapid declines in parts of Asia and
Latin America.

Figure 1.1 Child mortality by country, 1960 and 1990

,,

Under-five 111ortality rate
• 175 or more · • 125- 174 D 75-124 D 50-74 D 25-49 • Less than 25

,,

Source: Appendix A.

22


--- Page 37 ---
more; and in Sub-Saharan Africa, the region Life expectancy has increased substantially
where least progress has been made, it is about everywhere over the past fo'rty years.
fifty years .
Much of what is known about the decline in
mortality in the developing world since 1950 is Figure 1.2 Trends in life expectancy
limited to the mortality of children and has come by demographic region, 195Q-90
from a series of standardized, internationally
funded demographic surveys . Enormous reduc­ Life expectancy at birth (years)
tions in child mortality occurred almost every­ 80
where around the world between 1960 and 1990
(Figure 1 .1). For example, child mortality in Chile
dropped from 155 to 20 per 1,000, in Tunisia from 70
245 to 45, and in Sri Lanka from 140 to 22.
The statistics for adult mortality in the develop­
ing world are much less satisfactory than those for
child mortality. Approximate estimates for all de­ 60
veloping countries suggest that the adult mortality
rate (defined as the probability of dying between
ages 15 and 60 per 1,000 persons reaching age 15) 50
fell from about 450 in 1950 to about 230 in 1990 . In
Chile, a country with excellent statistics, the rate
dropped from 466 in 1930 to 152 in 1990 .
The decline in mortality has accelerated over the 40
past thirty years. In the 1960s child mortality fell 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990
by approximately 2 percent a year in about seventy
developing countries for which estimates are avail­
able. The annual decline increased to more than 3 Sub-Saharan Africa
percent in the 1970s and to more than 5 percent in India
the 1980s. This result could be skewed by changes China
in the mix of countries with reliable data; there Other Asia and islands
were, however, twenty-one countries with a con­ Latin America and the Caribbean
tinuous series of acceptable estimates of child mor­ Middle Eastern crescent
tality from the early 1%0s to the late 1980s, and for Formerly socialist economies of Europe
this group as a whole the fall in child mortality Established market economies
averaged 3 percent a year in the 1960s but 6 per­
cent a year in the 1980s. In seventeen of the Source: Appendix A.
twenty-one the pace of decline increased over the
period.
Regional patterns There are strong parallels between the pattern of
The extent of success has varied significantly be­ mortality decline in the high-income countries and
tween regions. Between 1950 and 1990 all eight the accelerated progress of developing countries
demographic regions used for this Report enjoyed over the past forty years. In both groups the con­
increases in life expectancy at birth, but China and trol of communicable diseases, particularly those
the Middle Eastern crescent did particularly well of childhood, accounts for most of the gains. (The
(see Figure 1 .2). Sub-Saharan Africa showed the term ''communicable diseases,'' in the analyses
slowest improvement, with life expectancy in­for this Report, includes deaths from maternal and
creasing only from thirty-nine to fifty-two years­ perinatal causes.) Progress against noncommuni­
although even this compares well with European cable diseases-primarily those of the circulatory
experience in the nineteenth century . (It took En­ and respiratory systems, which principally affect
gland and Wales more than half a century to raise adults-has been much slower. In both Chile (from
life expectancy by a similar amount.) The formerly 1930 to 1987) and England and Wales (over the
socialist economies of Europe showed a rapid im­ longer period 1891 to 1990) mortality from commu­
provement in the 1950s and 1960s, but the rise was nicable disease fell to less than 5 percent of its
much slower in the 1970s and 1980s. initial level, whereas mortality from noncommuni-
23


--- Page 38 ---
Mortality from communicable diseases has fallen Similar patterns in Chile and in England and Wales
much faster than that from noncommunicable show how mortality rates have declined much more
diseases or injuries. sharply for the young than for the old .

Figure 1.3 Age-standardized female death Figure 1.4 Change in female age-specific
rates in Chile and in England and Wales, mortality rates in Chile and in England
selected years and Wales, selected years

• Earlier period " 0 Later period b Ratio of mortality rates
a t two time periods
Chile 1 0

Communicable 0 .8 I
diseases<

0.6 I
Non communicable diseasesd
Chile " ./ ~
0.4 ,.- '
,r-- v
Injuries I 0.2 l--" b

II' England and
England and Wales ~
o I" vyales~ I ~ -
0 5 15 25 35 45 55 65 75 85
Communic able diseases < Age

a. Ratio of 1990 rates to 1930 rates.
b. Ratio of 1981 rates to 1891 rates . Source: For Chile 1930 a nd E ngland and Wales 1891 ;
Noncommunicable dis ea sesd Preston, Keyfitz, and Schoen 1972; for C hile 1990, World
Health Org a nization datil; for En g land and Wa les 1990,
United Nations, Dc111ogmpl1ic Ycarlook, 199 1.

Injuries

0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 adults. In Chile, for example , mortality risks up to
Ag e-s tandardi zed death rate age 30 fell by more than 90 percent between 1930
per 1,000 population and 1990; the decline was at least 60 percent at
ages 30-70, but above age 70 the gains were much
.a . For Chile, 1930; for England and Wales, 1891 . smaller (Figure 1.4). The age pattern of mortality
b. For Chile, 1'1H7; for England and Wales, 1990. decline in Chile over sixty years is strikingly simi­
c. d . For Includ es ;nat e rnal and neonatal earli er per iod, includes "other mortality . a nd unkno w n" lar to the pattern in England and Wales during the
Source: category. For C hile 1'130 and England and Wales 1891 , ninety years from 1891 to 1981 .
Preston, Keyfit z, and Schoen 1'1 72; for 1987 and 1990! The only exception to this broad similarity be­
WHO, World /lcai/IJ Stat istics Aunua/, 1989 and 1991. tween industrial and developing countries has
been in the formerly socialist economies . In these
countries child mortality has continued to decline,
as has the mortality of women, albeit more slowly .
cable disease fell much less rapidly (Figure 1.3). The mortality of adult men, on the other hand, has
One result of this change is that mortality risks stopped declining in the past two decades and has
have fallen much faster for children than for actually started to increase . This excess male mor-

24


--- Page 39 ---
tality is largely the result of extremely high death Table 1.1 Burden of disease by sex, cause,
rates from cardiovascular disease, associated with and type of loss, 1990
heavy smoking and drinking. (millions of DALYs)
Disease category
Measuring the burden of disease Sex and outcome Communicable" Noncommunicable Injuries
Male
The health improvements of the past few decades Premature death 259 152 70
have done much to enhance human welfare, both Disability 47 146 39
directly and indirectly. But much more remains to Female
be done. Communicable (and largely preventable) Premature death 244 135 33
diseases are still common. Health systems also Disability 74 142 20
have to cope with the aging of populations, which Note: DALY, disability-adjusted life year.
a. Includes maternal and perinatal causes.
leads to an increased burden of the more expen­ Source: Appendix B.
sive noncommunicable diseases. New illnesses,
such as AIDS, have emerged. One simple statistic
gives a sense of the remaining burden of disease: arrhea, childhood diseases such as measles, respi­
about 12.4 million children under age 5 died in ratory infections, worm infections, and malaria ac­
1990 in the developing world. Had those children count for one-quarter of the GBD. The burden of
faced the mortality risks of children in the estab­ these largely preventable or inexpensively curable
lished market economies, the number of deaths diseases of children is far larger in Sub-Saharan
would have been cut by more than 90 percent, to Africa (43 percent of all DALYs lost) than any­
1.1 million. where else, although it is still substantial in India
Any discussion of health policy must start with (28 percent), Other Asia and islands (29 percent),
a sense of the scale of health problems. These and the Middle Eastern crescent (29 percent). For
problems are often assessed in terms of mortality, adults too, communicable diseases are far from
but that indicator fails to account for the losses that trivial: sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and
occur this side of death because of handicap, pain, tuberculosis together contribute 7 percent of the
or other disability. A background study for this GBD.
Report, undertaken jointly with the World Health Even as broad a measure as the GBD does not
Organization, measures the global burden of dis­ capture all the consequences of disease or injury. It
ease (GBD) by combining (a) losses from prema­ excludes the social costs of disfigurement, such as
ture death, which is defined as the difference be­ that arising from river blindness or leprosy, and of
tween actual age at death and life expectancy at dysfunction-for example, marital breakups re­
that age in a low-mortality population, and (b) loss sulting from obstetric fistula (permanent damage
of healthy life resulting from disability. The GBD is to the reproductive tract incurred during delivery).
measured in units of disability-adjusted life years And some health-related factors are likely to be
(DALYs). Worldwide, 1.36 billion DALYs were lost underreported. A clear example is violence against
in 1990, the equivalent of 42 million deaths of new­ women, much of which goes undetected-but not
born children or of 80 million deaths at age 50. unsuffered.
Premature deaths were responsible for 66 percent Comparisons of absolute numbers of DALYs lost
of all DALYs lost and disabilities for 34 percent. In may be misleading because the sizes and age struc­
the developing world 67 percent of all DALY loss tures of the populations at risk are not the same.
was a result of premature death; in the established The effects of population size can be allowed for by
market economies and the formerly socialist econ­ expressing the 1990 burden per 1,000 population.
omies of Europe the figure was only 55 percent. Figure 1.5 shows the resulting rates by sex and
Table 1.1 shows the GBD broken down by sex, regional group. This index is 259 for the world as a
category of disease, and type of loss (premature whole, but it varies widely among regions. Sub­
death or disability). The three categories of disease Saharan Africa loses 574 DALYs for every 1,000
used are the group of communicable diseases, population, more than twice the global average.
noncommunicable diseases, and injuries. India, the Middle Eastern crescent, and Other Asia
The derivation and interpretation of the GBD and islands all have values between 250 and 350.
are explained in Box 1.3. The results of research on For China, the formerly socialist economies of Eu­
the GBD challenge the belief that the war against rope, and Latin America and the Caribbean, the
infectious and parasitic diseases has been won. Di- figures are between 150 and 250. The burden per

25


--- Page 40 ---
Box 1.3 Measuring the burden of diseas ·e

Most assessments of the relative importance of differ­ healthy life lost was then obtained by multiplying th e
ent diseases are based on how many deaths they cause . expected duration of the condition (to remission or to
This convention has certain merits: death is an unam­ death) by a severity weight that measured the severity
biguous event, and the statistical systems of many of the disability in comparison with loss of life. Dis­
countries routinely produce the data · required . There eases were grouped into six classes of se verity of dis­
are, however , many diseases or conditions that are not ability ; for example, class 2, ..yhich includ e s most cases
fatal but that are responsible for great loss of healthy of leprosy and half· the cases of pelvic inflammatory
life: examples are chronic depression and paralysis disease, was g~ven a severity weight of 0.22, and class
caused by polio. These conditions are common , can 4, which includes 30 percent of cases of d e mentia and
last a long ti!Tie, and frequently lead to significant de­ 50 percent -·of those of blindness, was assigned a sever­
mands on health systems . ity weight o£.0.6. The death and disability losses were
To quantify the full loss of healthy life, the World then combined, and allowance was made for a dis­
Bank and the World Health Organization undertook a coun 't rate of 3 percent (so that future years of healthy
joint exercise for this Report. Diseases were classified life were valued at progressively lower levels) and for
into 109 categories on the basis of the li1lernational C/as­ age weights (so that years of life lost at different ages
sificatio'' of Diseases (ninth revision). These categories were given different relative values). The value for
cover all possible causes of death and about 95 percent each year of life lost, shown in the left-hand panel of
of the possible causes of disability . Using the recorded Box figure 1 .3, rises steeply from zero at birth to a peak
cause of death where available, and expert judgment at age 25 and then declines gradually with increasing
when records were not available, the study assigned all age. These age ·weights reflect a consensus judgment,
deaths in 1990 to these categories by age , sex, and .de­ but other patterns could be used-for example, uni ­
mographic region . For each death, the number of years form age weights, with each year of life having the
of life lost was defined as the difference between the same value, which would increase the relative impor­
actual age at death and the expectation of life at that , tance of childhood diseases.
age in a low-mortality population . For disability , the The combination of discounting and age weight s
incidence of cases by age, sex , and demographic region · produces the pattern of DALYs (disability-adjusted life
was estimated on the basis of community surveys or, years) lost by a death at -each age . As the right-hand
failing that, expert opinion; the number of years of panel of Box figure 1.3 shows, th e death of a newborn

Box figure 1.3 Age patterns of age weights and DALY losses

Value of a year of life DALYs lost by death at given year (females)

Relative value of a year of life at age x Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs)
1.6 40

1---- ~ v r--..
1.2 / 30 1'-.
If '
0.8 I "' 20 ~
" "" !'... '
~ r---.... 1 10 ~
........
0 I 0 .......... ""

0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 ""
Agex Age at death in years

1--------

Sou rce: World Ba nk data .

26


--- Page 41 ---
Box table 1.3 Distribution of DALY loss by cause and demographic region, 1990
(p ercent)
Fo rmerlv
Sub' America and Eusft•n1 t.•Latin Middle ccmowics sodalisi of Established
Saharan Oth er C!zi>m and islands the Caribbean cresCe11t Europe economies Asia market
Cause World Africa India
Population (millions) 5,267 510 850 1,134 683 444 503 346 798
Communicable diseases 45.8 71.3 50.5 25 .3 48.5 42.2 51.0 8 .6 9.7
Tuberculosis 3.4 4.7 3.7 2.9 5 .1 2.5 2.8 0 .6 0.2
STDsand HIV 3. 8 8.8 2.7 1.7 1 .5 6.6 0.7 1 .2 3.4
Di.1rrhe~ 7 .3 10.4 9.6 2 .1 8 .3 5.7 10 .7 0 .4 0.3
Vaccine-preventable
childhood infections 5 .0 9.6 6.7 0 .9 4 .5 1.6 6.0 0 .1 0 .1
Malaria 2.6 10.8 0..3 1 .4 0.4 0.2
Worm infections 1.8 1.8 0.9 3.4 3 .4 2.5 0.4
Respiratory infections 9.0 10.8 10.9 6.4 11 .1 6.2 11.5 2 .6 2.6
Maternal causes 2.2 2.7 2.7 1.2 2.5 1.7 2.9 0 .8 0.6
Perin.1tal causes 7.3 7.1 9.1 5.2 7.4 9.1 10.9 2.4 2.2
Other 3.5 4.6 4.0 1.4 3.3 5.8 4.9 0.6 0.5
Noncommunicable diseases 42.2 19.4 40.4 58.0 40.1 42.8 36.0 74 .8 78.4
Cancer 5.8 1.5 4.1 9.2 4.4 5.2 3.4 14 .8 19.1
Nutritional deficiencies 3.9 2.8 6.2 3 .3 4 .6 4.6 3.7 1 .4 1 .7
Neuropsychiatric disease 6 .8 3.3 6.1 8 .0 7 .0 8.0 5 .6 11 .1 15.0
Cerebrovascular disease 3 .2 1.5 2.1 6 .3 2.1 2 .6 2.4 8 .9 5.3
Ischemic heart disease 3 . 1 0.4 2.8 2 .1 3 .5 2.7 1 .8 13 .7 10.0
Pulmonary obstruction 1.3 0.2 0.6 5 .5 0 .5 0.7 0 .5 1.6 1. 7
Other 18 .0 9.7 18 .5 23 .6 17 .9 19.1 18. 7 23 .4 25.6
Injuries 11.9 9.3 9.1 16.7 113 15.0 13.0 16 .6 11.9
Motor vehicle 2. 3 1.3 1.1 2.3 2.3 5.7 3.3 3.7 3.5
Intentional 3.7 4.2 1.2 5.1 3.2 4.3 5.2 4 .8 4.0
Other 5.9 3.9 6.8 9.3 5 .8 5.0 4.6 8.1 4.3
Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0
Millions of DALYs 1, 362 293 292 201 177 103 144 58 94
Equivalent infant deaths
(millions) 42 .0 9.0 9.0 6 . 2 5 .5 3.2 4.4 1 .8 2.9
DALYs per 1,000 population 259 575 344 178 260 233 286 168 11 7
• Less th an 0.05 percent. life year; STD, se xually transmitted disease; HIV. human immunodeficiency virus.
Sou rce : No te: DALY, disability-adjusted Worl d Bank data.

baby girl represents a loss of 32.5 DALYs; a female one .year per person. A baby who died in 1990 contrib­
death at age 30 means the loss ~f 29 DALY~; and a uted about thirty-two years (the discount e d value of
female death at age 60 represents 12 lost DALYs. about eighty years of expected life) to th e burden but
(Values are slightly lower for males .) The sum across all counted as one in the population . To t a ke an extreme
ages, conditions, and regions is referred to as the case , if the entfre population of the world w e r e to be
g lobal burden of disease (GBD) . More details on the killed in one year , the burden per 1,000 population in
GBD are presented in Appendix B. that year wottld exceed 20,000 DALYs . There is there­
The global burden measures the present value of the ·fore no absolute scale w ith which the GBD per 1,000
futur e stream of disability-free life lost as a result of population can be compared ; the only co mparisons
death, disease, or injury in 1990 . It is thus based on t\1at make sense are those between categories-of re­
events that occurred in 1990 but includes the loss of g ions, risk factors, disease groups, or sex. Box table 1.3
disability-free life in future yea.rs. This Report ex­ shows the GBD by cause and demographic r e gion.
presses the burden in three distinct ways: as the num­ The approach used to compute the GBD can also be
ber of DALYs, as a percen .tage of some larger aggregate used to track improvements in a nation ' s health over
(such as th e percentage of total loss attributable to a time by following changes in the n a tional burden of
specific disease), and in relation to population size in disease . Preliminary plans for initial national assess­
1990 . This last measure tails for careful interpretation m e nts have been developed for Costa Ric a, South Af­
because all future loss is expressed in relation to the rica , and Andhra Pradesh State in India .
. current population, and the measure can easily exceed

27


--- Page 42 ---
Disease burdens per 1,000 population vary substantially by region.

Figure 1.5 Disease burden by sex and demographic region, 1990

Disease burden per 1,000 population
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 650

Sub-Saharan Africa
India
China
Other Asia and islands
Latin America and the Caribbean
Middle Eastern crescent
Formerly socialist economies of Europe
Established market economies
World

liZ! Females [] Males

Sottrce: Appendix B.

1,000 population for the established market econ­ bers of "missing" (and presumed dead) women in
omies is easily the lowest, at 117. It turns out that relation to the expected population balance be­
these broad rankings are not significantly affected tween the sexes. In China illegal female infanticide
by differences in age distributions between (and, in the recent past, illegal sex-selective abor­
regions. tion) is thought to be the main reason.
Females have abcut a 10 percent lower disease
burden per 1,000 population than males for the Table 1.2 Burden of five major diseases by
world as a whole. They lose fewer DALYs from age of incidence and sex, 1990
premature mortality, but their DALY loss from dis­ (millions of DALYs)
ability is about the same as for males . Within the Age (years)
disability category, however, the female disease Disease and sex 0-4 5- 14 15-44 45-59 60+ Total
burden from the group of communicable causes is Diarrhea
considerably higher than that for males, partly be­ Male 42.1 4 .6 2 .8 0.4 0.2 50.2
cause of a substantial toll from maternal causes but Female 40.7 4.8 2.8 0.4 0.3 48.9
also because of the much greater female burden Wonn infection
associated with STDs. Effective interventions exist Male 0.2 10.6 1.6 0.5 0.1 13.1
for much of this excess female burden. For all Female 0.1 9 .2 0 .9 0.5 0.1 10 .9
causes together, the female advantage ranges from Tuberculosis
more than 30 percent in the formerly socialist · Male 1.2 3.1 13.4 6.2 2.6 26.5
economies, where adult mortality is much higher Female 1.3 3.8 10 .9 2.8 1.2 20 .0
for men than for women, to negative in India, Ischemic heart disease
where females suffer a disadvantage of 8 percent. Male 0.1 0.1 3.6 8.1 13.1 25.0
Both India and China show a female disadvantage Female 1.2 3.2 13.0 17.5
in disease burden per 1,000 population, and, not •• Less than 0.05 m ill ion.
Note: DALY, disability-adjusted life year.
coincidentally, both countries also have large num- Source: World Bank data.

28


--- Page 43 ---
The figures on disease burden by age (Table 1.2) The share of communicable diseases in the disease
suggest how health officials should target their burden declines as mortality rates fall.
programs. More than 80 percent of the DALY loss
from diarrhea is a result of infections in children
under age 5. Worm infections are concentrated Figure 1.6 Distribution of disability­
among children ages 5-14. More than half the bur­ adusted life years (DALYs) lost, by cause,
den of tuberculosis is borne by the 15-44 age for selected demographic regions, 1990
group. More than 60 percent of the burden of isch­ (percentage of total DALYs lost)
emic heart disease falls on the population over age
60. Sub-Saharan Latin America
The higher the disease burden, the higher the Africa and the C aribbean
proportion attributable to the communicable
group of causes (Figure 1.6). Sub-Saharan Africa
has the highest disease burden per 1,000 popula­
tion, and 71 percent of this is from the communica­
ble disease group, whereas in Latin America (a
medium-burden region) the figure is 42 percent
and in the established market economies it is only
10 percent. Noncommunicable diseases show the
opposite pattern, accounting for 19 percent of the
total burden in Sub-Saharan Africa, 43 percent in
Latin America, and 78 percent in the established Established market
market economies. Despite these marked differ­ economies
ences in relative burden, however, the absolute
rates of loss for both groups are highest in Sub­
Saharan Africa and lowest in the established mar­
ket economies. The pattern is plain: as health im­
proves, the burden from all types of disease
declines, but the distribution of the burden shifts
dramatically from a preponderance of communica­
ble disease to a preponderance of noncommunica­
ble disease.
Despite the sharp improvements in health
around the world, the GBD calculations show that D Communicable diseases"
a large burden of premature mortality and disabil­ D Noncommuni cable diseas es
ity still remains, particularly in the world's poorer • Injuries
regions. There are inexpensive and effective ways
to eliminate the share caused by communicable a. Includes maternal and p e rinatal causes.
diseases (other than maternal and perinatal condi­ Source: Appendix B.
tions), which is roughly 35 percent of the world
burden and more than 60 percent in Sub-Saharan
Africa. The remaining 65 percent of the world bur­
den is less responsive to such measures, and re­ ber of drug-resistant disease strains; and the con­
ducing it will require changes in the behavior and tinued use of health-damaging substances such as
life-styles of adults. tobacco. Although nobody can forecast the impact
of these challenges with any precision, reasonable
Challenges for the future projections are possible. For example, outside the
established market economies the number of
New health challenges will emerge over the next deaths attributable to smoking is expected to in­
few decades. Some are certain: these involve the crease from 1.7 million in 1990 (40 percent of which
significant increase in noncommunicable diseases were in the formerly socialist economies of Eu­
arising from the continuing demographic transi­ rope) to more than 3 million by 2005 and to about
tion. Others are less certain: the spread of HIV and 4.5 million by 2015. Other challenges are poten­
the increase in AIDS deaths; the increasing num- tially important but not forecastable: possible ex-

29


--- Page 44 ---
Worldwide, fertility and mortality declines go hand
in hand. Box .1.4 The demographic and
epidemiological transitions
Figure 1.7 Trends in life expectancy and Changes in the pattern of diSl'.!Sl' pnKL'l'd in two steps.
fertility in Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin The first is the demographic transition, wlwn mort.1lity
America and the Caribbean, 1960-2020 from infectious diseaSL' declines ,md, p<~rtly as" n•stiit,
fertility decreases as well. Thl' second, ,1 consequl·nCl'
of declining fertility and diffen•nti,tl r<Jh•s of dL·clinl'
among causes of death, is tlw epidl•miologic<~l tr<~nsi­
Life expectancy tion. The population grows oldl•r, ,md noninfl•ctious
at birth (years) Total fertility rate diseases become the main G1USL'S of ill lw.~lth. He<~lth
7 patterns iri the developing world oVl'r tlw Ill'Xt thn'l'
decades will be profoundly influl·ncl·d by both tlll'Sl'

• • "'!! .... - "'!! ---- -- transitions.
70 It is commonly assumed that when " country is
going through its demogr<~phic transition, tlw ch,mgl'S
5 in its health indicators are primarily a function of dl•­
clines in mortality. In fact, both tlw agl' structun· ,md
the cause-of-death structure .1re strongly influL•nced by
the rapid decline in fertility. Wlwn fl·rtility is high, tlw
50 .. .. .... age structure of a population is !wavily skewed tow,mi
.. .. .. 3 the young, irrespectiw of tlw ll'Vl'l of mort.1lity. Hl•­
cause birth rates remain high and largl·r numbers of
--- ---- women enter the reproductiVl' agl'S L'Vl'ry ye.1r, tlw
Projected base of the population is continually l'xpanding. Wlwn
birth rates start to fall rapidly, tlw <tbsolutL• numbL•r l!f
30 1 babies born each year may remain unch,mgl·d or l'Vl'n
1960 1975 1990 2005 2020 decline. As Box figurL' 1.4 shows, the shapl' of tlw .1gl'
structure of the population then b.q;ins to bl· trans­
formed from a broad-based triangle into" n•ctangle, or
even into a pear shape with a more pronounced Ihlr­
Total fertility rate, Sub-Saharan Africa rowing of the base.
Life expectancy, Sub-Saharan Africa

Total fertility rate, Latin · America and
the Caribbean
Life expectancy, Latin America and and low fertility is essentially complete in the
the Caribbean high-income countries and has almost been com­
Source: Appendix A and World Bank data. pleted in China and Latin America. Even in Sub­
Saharan Africa fertility seems to be starting to
decline.
The systematic relationship between gains in life
expectancy and reductions in fertility is expected
amples are the emergence of new microbes as dev­ to continue into the next century. Figure 1.7 shows
astating as HIV and the inadvertent spread of this relationship for two developing regions at dif­
biological agents developed for use in war. ferent stages of the transition, Latin America and
This section reviews predictions concerning Sub-Saharan Africa. The projected changes for
three major challenges in the light of their contri­ Sub-Saharan Africa are substantial, but they are
bution to the GBD: the aging of populations, similar in magnitude to those that have already
AIDS, and drug-resistant strains of disease. occurred in Latin America. In much of the devel­
oping world the decline in death rates has pre­
Aging populations ceded the decline in birth rates by two decades or
more, resulting in temporarily high rates of popu­
The mortality decline that has occurred almost lation growth of 3 or even, occasionally, 4 percent
everywhere has usually been accompanied by a year. (By contrast, in the established market
steep falls in fertility. The overall transition from economies and the formerly socialist economies of
high mortality and high fertility to low mortality Europe birth and death rates declined more or less

30


--- Page 45 ---
Box figure 1.4 Evolving patterns of age distribution and mortality in England and Wales
and in Latin America and the Caribbean

England and Wales, 1891 Latin Amedca and the Caribbean, 1955
Age
group
75+ c [ -
70-74 G: - E •
65-69 c::;z • - li: •
60-64 b Iiili c ~
55-59 E:::3 • c •
50-54 ~ii Fe: I
45-49 - r;;;:;;:l
40-44
35-39 .; .... ,: .. · • ~ · •

' ...
30-34 - •
25-29 ~c:;i~' •
20-24 , ..
15-19 ~ 0 •• ..,;, ' .
10-14 I "'"'?:' •
5-9 , · ;;;.".. t--
0-4 :..: I•

• 0 "·''"'
16 12 8 4 0 10 20 30 40 50 20 16 12 8 4 0 1 0 20 30 40 50

England and Wales, 1966 Latin America and the Caribbean, 2030 a

75+
70-74 \ t.
65-69
60-64
55-59
50-54 h
45-49
40-44
35-39
30-34
25-29
20-24
15-19
10-14
5-9 ;:11':>·'•-•• ... .. "': .;.;~
0-4 ·;;, ..

1 0 8 6 4 2 0 1 0 20 30 40 50 1 0 8 6 4 2 0 1 0 20 30 40 50
Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of
total population total deaths' total population total deaths
+- Median age af deathb

a . Projected.
·b . Source: The age below which half of all deaths in a year occur . For England and Wales 1891, Preston, Keyfitz , and Schoen ·1972; for England and Wales 1966, Unit e d

Nations, Dcllwgmplric Yearbook, 1978; for Latin America and the Caribbean ,. 1955 and 2030, World Bank data.

31


--- Page 46 ---
in tandem beginning in the late nineteenth cen­ eases will increase sharply, both absolutely and
tury, and population growth rates rarely exceeded proportionately . At the same time, the challenge of
2 percent a year.) communicable diseases of the young will persist.
These demographic changes are having , and Despite declines in fertility, the number of births
will continue to have, dramatic effects on age dis ­ each year in developing countries will rise some ­
tributions in developing countries. As fertility de­ what, from 127 million in 1990 to 145 million in
clines, age structures in these countries are evolv­ 2020, before decreasing to 142 million in 2030. The
ing toward the existing patterns in the established number of children under age 5 will increase more
market economies and the formerly socialist econ ­ rapidly, from 552 million in 1990 to 682 million in
omies (see Box 1.4) . The proportion of the popula­ 2030. These changes , which took a century to com­
tion age 65 and over is expected to increase from 4 plete in today's high -income countries , are occur­
percent in 1990 to 9 percent by 2030 (in absolute ring within fifty years or less in parts of the devel ­
numbers , from 184 million to 678 million). As a oping world.
result, the burden from noncommunicable dis- In judging the importance of the health prob­
lems of the young in comparison with those of the
elderly, one useful guide is the median age at
All regions will experience the health transition, but death. For all six regions of the developing world,
the timing will differ. the median was below 20 in 1950, indicating the
dominance of the health problems of children . By
1990 the median had risen close to age 60 in China
Figure 1.8 Median age at death, by and in Latin America but was scarcely above 5 in
demographic region, 1950, 1990, and 2030 Sub-Saharan Africa and was still below 25 in the
Middle Eastern crescent (see Figure 1 .8) . By 2030,
Medi a n age at death (years) " assuming that current trends continue, the median
80 age at death will have risen above 60 in all regions
except Sub - Saharan Africa , where it will still be
close to 40 .
The message from these population projections
is that health services must plan for a modest in ­
crease in child-related demands over the next forty
years. At the same time, the numbers of the el­
derly, with very different health needs , will be ris­
ing sharply . The pace of demographic change has
been, and is expected to continue to be, faster in
the developing world than it was in the high ­
income countries, and the problems of adaptation
are therefore greater. Because treatments for non­
communicable diseases are often expensive, there
is a danger that these diseases will absorb re­
2030 b sources needed to combat communicable diseases
1950 1990 (which will still be widespread). This kind of di­
lemma has already been noted in World Bank
• Sub-Saharan Africa studies in Brazil and China .
• Middl e East ern crescent HIVandAIDS
D Indi a
D Other Asia and islands More than 80 percent of the estimated 8.8 million
• Latin America a nd the Caribbean people infected with HIV in 1990 lived in develop­
• Chin a ing countries. There the disease is primarily one of
heterosexual adults , with substantial perinatal in­
a. Th e a ge below w hich half of a ll deaths in a year occur . fection of young children . Of the eight demo­
b. Proj e cte d . graphic regions used in this Report, only the for ­
Source: World Ba nk d a ta . merly socialist economies, the Middle Eastern
crescent, and China have little recorded spread of

32


--- Page 47 ---
Table 1.3 Evolution of the HIV-AIDS epidemic
HIV incidence HlV prevalence AIDS-related
(millions) (millimzs) deaths (millions)
Region 1990 2000·' 1990 2000• 1990 2000·'
Demographically developing
groupb 1.6 2.5 7.4 25 0.3 1.7
Sub-Saharan Africa 1.1 1.0 5.8 12 0.3 0.9
Asia' 0.3 1.3 0.4 9 0.6
EME and FSEd 0.1 1.4 0.1 0.1
Total 1.7 2.5 8.8 26 0.4 1.8
** Less than 0.05 million.
Note: Incidence refers to new infections in a given year; prevalence refers to the total number of persons infected.
a. Conservative estimates.
b. The countries of the demographic regions Sub-Saharan Africa, India, China, Other Asia and islands, Latin America and the Caribbean, and
Middle Eastern crescent.
c. India, China, and the demographic region Other Asia and islands.
d. EME, established market economies; FSE, formerly socialist economies of Europe.
Source: World Health Organization data.

the virus. Spread of the virus may be about to mission, incubation periods, survival times, and
occur even in these three regions. It takes six to ten the role of such factors as STDs-are not well
years, on average, for an HIV-infected adult to de­ quantified, and accurate projections are therefore
velop AIDS. Thus, regardless of future changes in impossible. In the African communities that are
transmission of the virus, there will certainly be an most severely affected, early assessments pre­
increasing number of AIDS cases over the next few dicted absolute declines in population. Later views
years. suggest that population growth will continue, al­
It is difficult to predict the future course of the beit at a reduced rate. Trial projections for Sub­
epidemic because so little is known about the dy­ Saharan Africa, based on a high assumption of
namics of HIV transmission. WHO has projected HIV prevalence of 60 million infections worldwide
that in 2000, 2.5 million people will be newly infec­ in 2000, suggest a reduction in life expectancy by
ted with HIV, HIV prevalence will have reached 26 2010 of about six years, in comparison with a low­
million, and AIDS deaths will total 1.8 million (see HIV model, and a 25 percent increase in adult mor­
Table 1.3). These estimates are conservative, since tality. The effect on population growth would still
they assume that the rate of new infections in Af­ be modest: a reduction of about 0.25 percentage
rica will slow somewhat and that new transmis­ point a year, to an annual rate of 2.7 rather than
sion will be concentrated in India and in the Other 2.95 percent in 2005-10. In areas such as Thailand
Asia and islands region. If no effective interven­ where fertility and mortality rates are much lower
tions to slow transmission are introduced, the total than in Sub-Saharan Africa, AIDS may well con­
number of deaths may be twice as large, in which tribute to actual population declines over a period
case AIDS would be responsible for 8 percent of of thirty years or more.
the global burden of disease by 2000 instead of the
3.5 percent implied by the estimates in Table 1.3. Drug-resistant diseases
If, however, sexual behavior changes dramatically
over the next decade, even the conservative pro­ Microbes evolve as a result of natural mutation,
jections given here may prove too pessimistic. which throws up new threats, and of drug thera­
Relatively modest reductions in numbers of casual py-induced selection, which fosters drug resis­
sexual partners, or in the prevalence of STDs-or, tance. Two major new threats have arisen in this
alternatively, substantial increases in condom century: the influenza virus responsible for the
use-could reduce transmission significan!ly. 1918-19 worldwide epidemic, and HIV.
Early (and still tentative) findings from Thailand The evolution of drug resistance, partly driven
are encouraging; perhaps behavior really will by incomplete or inadequate treatment, is more
change. gradual and less dramatic but no less serious. The
Opinions differ concerning the effects of AIDS everyday bacteria responsible for pneumonias and
on population growth. The variables needed to diarrheas have become resistant to the older anti­
model the epidemic-including baseline rates of biotics and will gradually do the same with the
infections, behavioral risk factors, efficacy of trans- newer antibiotics developed over the past few dec-

33


--- Page 48 ---
Life expectancy is related to income, but the emerging. In the developing world the diseases for
relationship has shifted upward during the twentieth which drug resistance is already a major issue (re­
century. spiratory infections, tuberculosis, STDs, and ma­
laria) accounted for almost one-fifth of the GBD in
1990.
Figure 1.9 Life expectancy and income per This steady evolution of drug-resistant microbes
capita for selected countries and periods poses challenges for research and for health care.
Better understanding of infectious agents is
Life expectancy (years) needed as a basis for the development of new ther­
80 apies. Health providers must consider the effects
of drug use on the evolution of resistant microbial
strains. Basic scientific advances can contribute to
70 tracking resistance, as recently shown by develop­
ments in identifying drug-resistant strains of tu­
berculosis. There is little reason to hope for perma­
60 nent success in humanity's struggle against
infection; investments in scientific research and
vigilance on the part of public health authorities
will remain indispensable.
50 These problems arising from microbial evolution
are most severe in Sub-Saharan Africa. If efforts to
control the spread of HIV fail, by 2000 an addi­
40 • tional 1 million people in the region will be dying
from AIDS each year. Most of them will be young
adults who would otherwise have gone on to live

30 ~----L-----~----~----~----~ healthy lives. If malaria develops resistance to all
0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 available drugs, the number of people it kills every
Income per capita year could increase sharply, from the expected 1.5
(1991 international dollars) million deaths in 2000 to 2.3 million. Sub-Saharan
Africa might also suffer from a tuberculosis epi­
Note: International dollars are derived from national demic, driven partly by drug resistance and partly
currencies not by use of exchange rates but by assessment by the spread of the disease by people with HIV
of purchasing power. The effect is to raise the relative Extrapolation of current trends indicates an annual
incomes of poorer countries, often substantially. For total of 8.5 million premature deaths in Sub­
illustrative country comparisons and a more detailed Saharan Africa by the end of the century. But it is
explanation, see Table 30 in the World Development
Indicators. all too easy to project a figure as high as 11.5 mil­
Source: Preston, Keyfitz, and Schoen 1972; World Bank lion, accompanied l:>y a sharp reduction in life
data. expectancy.

Lessons from the past: explaining declines
in mortality
ades. Tuberculosis resistant to the standard mix of
antibiotics is becoming more common in the in­ Three factors have been important in the dramatic
dustrial world, and it kills many of those who con­ and unprecedented mortality declines of the past
tract it. Chloroquine-resistant malaria has now hundred years and in the still more dramatic de­
spread to practically all endemic areas, and al­clines in developing countries since World War II.
though new drug therapies are available, wide­ These factors are income growth, improvements in
spread resistance even to several of these is being medical technology, and public health programs
reported. Malaria has thus reemerged as a signifi­ combined with the spread of knowledge about
cant health risk in urban areas that had been free health.
of it for several decades. Resurgence of the disease
has been abetted by the reduced effectiveness of Income growth
vector control, which is partly attributable to the
increasing resistance of mosquitoes to standard in­ Increased income allows people, particularly the
secticides. Resistant strains of many STDs are also poor, to buy more food, better housing, and more
34


--- Page 49 ---
health care. Throughout the twentieth century life health measures were responsible for only a small
expectancy has been strongly associated at the na­ part of the progress made. In the late nineteenth
tional level with income per capita, as seen in Fig­ century Robert Koch showed that the bacterium
ure 1. 9. Life expectancy rises rapidly with income M. tuberculosis causes tuberculosis, and people be­
at low levels of income, particularly when income gan to understand about germs. They took simple
per capita is less than $3,000 (1991 purchasing precautions-preparing food and disposing of
power dollars). The figure shows, however, that waste hygienically, eliminating flies, and quaran­
the relationship has shifted upward over each tining sick family members-that had far-reaching
thirty-year period, so that more health is realized benefits. Recent research has shown that child
for a given income. For example, in 1900 life expec­ mortality differed little by education or even by
tancy in the United States was about forty-nine income in the United States in the last decade of
years and income per capita in 1991 dollars was the nineteenth century but that differences wid­
about $4,800. In 1990 that income per capita would ened sharply as child mortality fell in the early
be associated with a life expectancy of about sev­ twentieth century. The implication is that afflu­
enty-one years. This upward shift shows that ence and education made little difference until sci­
health depends on more than income alone. entific knowledge showed households how to
reduce the dangers to their health. Since better­
Improvements in medical technology educated individuals acquire and use new infor­
mation more quickly, this emphasis on knowledge
Before the 1930s medical technology had little to helps to explain the large differences in child mor­
offer humanity, with the exception of smallpox in­ tality by mother's education observed in develop­
oculation, the use of which was widespread in Eu­ ing countries today.
rope from the late eighteenth century onward, and
diphtheria antitoxin, discovered in 1894. Starting The potential for effective action
in the 1930s, with the introduction of antibacterial
drugs and new vaccines, a wide range of effective The recent declines in mortality in the developing
interventions has become available to counter world have been sharper than the earlier declines
most communicable diseases. in the high-income countries and more influenced
The effect of these technological improvements by technical advances. To take one example, Sri
on health has depended on other factors, such as Lanka achieved a remarkable decrease in mortality
income gains for the poor, increased schooling, after World War II; the crude death rate fell from
and public policies that affect health systems. As a 21.5 per 1,000 in 1945 to 12.4 in 1950. Some 23
result, outcomes have varied widely by country, percent of that drop has been attributed to the ma­
even within the same region. For example, in the laria eradication program, which mainly involved
early 1980s child mortality was three times higher spraying of insecticide from the air. The same ap­
in Mali than in Botswana, six times higher in Boli­ proach also did much to control yellow fever, on­
via than in Chile, and five times higher in Ban­ chocerciasis, and many other diseases. Wide­
gladesh than in Sri Lanka. Between the early 1960s spread use of newly available antibiotics against
and the early 1980s child mortality fell 20 percent conditions such as yaws in Africa helped to reduce
in Bangladesh but 65 percent in Sri Lanka, 10 per­ STDs and (probably) acute respiratory infections.
cent in Uganda but 50 percent in Kenya, and 10 Improvements in water and sanitation curbed the
percent in Haiti but nearly 80 percent in Costa spread of disease, particularly in towns and cities.
Rica. Some countries have clearly made better use Whereas at the beginning of this century child
of the available technology than others. mortality rates in today's high-income countries
were much higher in urban than in rural areas, the
Public health and the spread of knowledge opposite has been true of the developing world
since 1950.
The introduction of public health measures-par­ Vaccination, too, has produced dramatic results,
ticularly clean water, sanitation, and food regula­ including the eradication of smallpox and the elim­
tion-certainly contributed to the decline in child ination of paralytic polio in the Western Hemi­
mortality in the late nineteenth century and to the sphere. About 80 percent of the world's children
accelerated decline in the early twentieth century. are now vaccinated against the main infectious dis­
The geographic distribution of mortality declines eases of childhood, thanks largely to the Expanded
suggests, however, that until people began to un­ Programme on Immunization (EPI) sponsored by
derstand the sources of poor health, such public WHO and UNICEF. It is estimated that the EPI
35


--- Page 50 ---
prevented the deaths of 2.6 million children in more than 20 percent of the GBD in 1990. Epide­
1990 alone. Substantial benefits have also come miological advances are giving governments and
from simple curative measures such as oral re­ households warning of the enormous health toll
hydration to avert death from diarrhea and a short from smoking. But if the full benefits of scientific
course of drugs for curing tuberculosis. But there advances are to be realized, parallel developments
is much more still to be done: in 1990 childhood are needed to empower households so that they
deaths from diarrhea and immunizable diseases can put the advances into practice. The key devel­
alone accounted for 12 percent of the GBD. opments are schooling, particularly of girls; in­
The march of science has increased both the come growth, particularly of the poor; and a flex­
range of inexpensive clinical treatments and prac­ ible, responsive health system able to provide the
tices and the potential performance of health sys­ necessary preventive and curative care. The poli­
tems. It is now possible to treat at low cost tuber­ cies needed to achieve these developments are the
culosis, STDs, many respiratory infections, and subject of the remainder of this Report.
risky deliveries, which together accounted for

36


--- Page 51 ---
Households and health

What people do with their lives and those of their their effects on the conditions facing households
children affects their health far more than any­and individuals, can be important to people ' s
thing that governments do. But what they can do health. Especially in the poorest countries, policies
is determined, to a great extent, by their income that accelerate income growth and reduce poverty
and knowledge-factors that are not completely make it possible for people to afford better diets,
within their control . In every society, moreover , healthier living conditions , and better health care .
the capabilities, income, and status of women ex­ Policies to expand educational opportunities, par ­
ert a powerful influence on health. Because of ticularly for girls, help households achieve health ­
these interrelations, government actions, through ier lives by increasing their access to information

Economic growth and investments in human resources interact to improve well-being.

Figure 2.1 Mutually reinforcing cycles: reduction of poverty
and development of human resources

Health
/;mpm"'m''"~ \

Empowerment ..___.. Expansion schooling of
of women opportunities

Economic growth ~
benefit the poor policies that ~

37


--- Page 52 ---
and their ability to make good use of it. The same Household capacity: income and schooling
goes for policies that work to ensure effective and
accessible health services for all. When all these Within the household, health improves rapidly as
policies are combined, they create a virtuous cycle people escape from poverty and low education
in which reduction of poverty and improvements (Box 2.1). Beyond the household, every society's
in health reinforce each other (Figure 2.1). health services are affected by its national income,

Box 2.1 Progress in child health in four countries

In the 1960s a child born in the developing world had a only 60 percent as fast . Thus, improvements in school­
77 percent chance of surviving the first five years of ing were most significant in Cote d'lvoire , whereas in
life . About thirty years later, the chances of survival Egypt growth in income per capita accounted for fully
have improved to 89 percent. How much did income half of the gain in child health.
growth and expansion of schooling contribute to this Costa Rica and japan followed the same pattern as
gain? What was the role of other factors, such as prog­ Egypt: growth of income per capita contributed sub­
ress in science and medicine' Some answers to these stantially more to child health gains than did educa­
questions emerge from data on child survival from sev­ tional improvements. Technical progress (estimated
enty-five industrial and developing countries for the using the passage of time as a proxy) , however, was
period between 1960 and 1987 (see note to Appendix important in.Japan, whereas in Costa Rica and Egypt it
table A.3). This box reviews the results for four coun­ mattered less than improvements in education. Except
tries with different income levels-Costa Rica, Cote in japan , where people were already quite well edu­
d ' lvoire, Egypt, and japan (see Box table 2.1 and Box cated in 1960, the analysis probably underestimated
figure 2.1). the contribution of schooling because it dealt with the
In all four countries, part of the gain in child health schooling of all adults rather than of women alone.
depends on the initial levels in 1960 of schooling in the Child health is particularly affected by maternal educa­
population and of income per capita. Because school­ tion, and the number of years of schooling received by
ing and income per capita produce health benefits that younger women is likely to have risen much faster be­
often persist through time, health in a population may tween 1960 and 1987 than was the case for the adult
be improved simply by maintaining initial levels of population as a whole.
schooling and income. In Costa Rica, where in 1960
income per capita was relatively high and schooling Box table 2.1 Child health, income per capita,
was already widespread, initial conditions accounted and schooling in Costa Rica, Cote d'lvoire,
for 58 percent of the gain in child· health between 1960 Egypt, and Japan, 1960-87
and 1987. In Cote d'lvoire and Egypt , where the levels Cote
of schooling and income per capita were modest in Indicator Costa Rica d'lvoire·' Egvrt Japan
1960, initial conditions contributed only about one­ 1960
fifth to one-quarter of the gains. In japan, too, these Child survivaJb 0.89 0.72 0.74 0.96
initial conditions contributed a fifth of the gains in child Income per capita
health, but this is not surprising in a ·country where a (1987 international
baby's chance of survival was already very good in dollars)< 2,160 1,021 557 2,701
1960. Average schooling
In reality, of course, income and schooling have im­ of adults (years) 4.0 .0.2 3.0 10.7
proved in all these countries, and these improvements Average a111111al percmtage clra11ge, 1960-87
contributed to further gains in child survival. In Cote Child survivalb 0.4 0.8 0.6 0.1
d'lvoire ·educational improvements did the most for Income per capita 2 .3 3 .2 5.2 5.3
child health, accounting for 66 percent of the gains be­ Schooling of adult
tween 1960 and 1980. For .Egypt, by contrast, the .figure population 2.0 11.8 2.4 0.2
was only 21 percent. A comparison between Cote Elasticity of child sun>ival witlr respect to:
d'lvoire and Egypt is illuminating. The probability of Income per capita" 0.04 0.06 0.06 0.02
surviving the first five years of life started at similaF Schooling of adult
levels in both countries and improved at comparable populationd 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.02
rates. In both, too, the responsiveness of child survival a . Data refer to 1960-80.
to income per capita and to the schooling of adults was b. Child survival refers to the probability of surviving from birth
comparable. In Cote d'Ivoire, however, adult schooling through age 5.
c . Income is adjusted for differences in purchasing power parity.
started from much lower levels than in Egypt but in­ d . Elasticities denote the percentage change in the probability of
creased five times faster. Income per capita in Cote surviving from birth through age 5 corresponding to a 1 percent
change in the indicated v.uiable.
d'lvoire was nearly twice Egypt 's in 1960 but then grew Soura: Lau and others , b.Kkground paper .

38


--- Page 53 ---
and its ability to acquire and apply new scientific the more likely its people are to live long and
knowledge depends on the level of schooling in healthy lives . Of course , this effect tapers off as
the population. income rises: a doubling of income per capita (ad­
The influence of income on health justed for purchasing power parity) from, say,
$1 , 000 in 1990 corresponds to a gain of eleven
The higher a country's average income per capita, years in life expectancy, whereas a doubling from

Box figure 2.1 Gains in child health, 1960-87, and share contributed by various factors

Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire

5

Egypt

3
Japan

9

3
• Initia l le vels of
schoolin g and
income per ca pit a
50 1!1 Increase in schooling
• Incr ea se in income
per ca pita
D Technicill progress

Note: The <1rea of the circle is propo r tional to the absolute increase , over the period 1960-87, in th e prob a bilit y of
surviving to age 5 . For C ote d'Ivoire ch 11 nges for the period a re e xtrapolated from the observed ch a ng e during 1960-80.
So urce: Lau and others, b ackground p a per.

39


--- Page 54 ---
Within the same city, health status is worse in poorer people in poverty matter as well. In industrial
areas. countries life expectancy depends much more on
income distribution than on income per capita,
and it has been rising faster in countries with im­
Figure 2.2 Child mortality in rich and poor proving income distribution. Japan and the United
neighborhoods in selected metropolitan Kingdom had similar income distributions and life
areas, late 1980s expectancies in 1970, but they have diverged since
then. Japan now has the highest life expectancy in
1!!11 Poor neighborhoods the world and a highly egalitarian income distribu­
0 Rich neighborhoods tion. In the United Kingdom, where income dis­
parity has widened since the mid-1980s, life expec­
tancy is now more than three years shorter than in
Percentage deviation from national mean Japan.
0.50 In developing countries the number of people in
poverty is an especially important reason for dif­
ferences in health. One study looked at twenty­
0.25 two developing countries with comparable data on
poverty (defined as the share of the population
consuming less than $1 a day at 1985 purchasing
power parity prices) and found that variation in
0 the prevalence of poverty and in per capita public
spending on health is important in explaining
cross-country variation in life expectancy. Differ­
-0.25 ences in income per capita became unimportant
once those two factors were taken into account.
This does not mean that income growth is irrele­
-0.50 vant to increased life expectancy; rather, its main
effect lies in how much it reduces poverty and
Cairo , Egypt Colombo, Lima, Peru supports public health services. In the twenty-two
Sri Lanka countries, roughly one-third of the effect of eco­
nomic growth on life expectancy came through
Note: Child mortality indexes for each neighborhood are poverty reduction and the remaining two-thirds
calculated by dividing the observed number of deaths through increased public spending on health. In
among children of women in the sampled households of Sri Lanka an increase in per capita public spending
a neighborhood by the expected number (given the
distrioution of women by the length of time they have on health was twenty-two times more effective in
been bearing children and the national average child reducing infant mortality than was the same in­
mortality levels at each duration of childoearing) ;
Percentage deviations from the national average are crease in average income.
obtained by subtracting 1 from a neighborhood's index Within countries, too, health correlates strongly
and multiplying the result by 100. Neighborhoods in
each city were ranked according to the proportion of with poverty. In India, Indonesia, and Kenya child
houses with concrete floors. the lowest 25 percent in this ranking; rich . Poor neighborhoods neighborhood s' ' were , mortality is higher in states or provinces with
were the top Source: Calculated from data from national Demographic 23 percent. ,, larger proportions of poor people. Within cities,
and Health Surveys. there are large differences in child survival be­
tween rich and poor neighborhoods (Figure 2.2).
And children in poor families are less healthy. In
Madurai, the second largest city in India's Tamil
$4,000 is matched by a gain of only four years (see Nadu State, children ages 2-9 in the poorest
Figure 1.9 in Chapter 1). Income growth has more. households were more than twice as likely to suf­
impact in poor populations because additional re­ fer from serious physical or mental disabilities as
sources buy basic necessities, particularly food children from slightly better-off families.
and shelter, that yield especially large health Poor people are vulnerable to disease not only
benefits. because of poor living conditions but often also for
Because poverty has a powerful influence on work-related reasons. In Adana, Turkey, the risk
health, it is not just income per capita that is rele­ of malaria is significantly greater among migrant
vant; the distribution of income and the number of workers than for the local population; the average

40


--- Page 55 ---
number of anopheline mosquito bites per person Child mortality falls faster in countries where income
was five times greater in the tents of these workers per capita is growing rapidly.
than in the houses of village residents. In Sri
Lanka one of the commonest causes of pesticide
poisoning is leaky knapsack sprayers; surveys Figure 2.3 Declines in child mortality
show that although farmers are aware of the risks and growth of income per capita
involved, they continue to use broken equipment in sixty-five countries
because they cannot afford to replace or repair it.
The distribution of income within households Annual rate of change in child
also affects health. Increasing women's access to mortality, 1970-88 (percent)
income can be especially beneficial for the health 1
of children. In Brazil income in the hands of the 0 r•~-+----------------------------__, •
mother has a bigger effect on family health than
income controlled by the father. In Jamaica house­ • • •
holds headed by women eat more nutritious food -2 •• • • • • •
than those headed by men; they also spend more •
of their income on child-centered goods and signif­ -4 • •
icantly less on alcohol. In Cote d'Ivoire a doubling ••
of household income under women's control re­ -6 • •
duces the share of alcohol in the family budget by • • •
26 percent and the share of cigarettes by 14 per­ -8 •• •
cent. In Guatemala it takes fifteen times more • •
spending to achieve a given improvement in child • •
nutrition when income is earned by the father than -10
when it is earned by the mother. Although a work­ -1 0 2 3 4 5 6 7
ing mother may breastfeed less and have less time Annual income per capita growth rate, 1960-88 (percent)
for child care-both of which could be detrimental
to her children's health-evidence from numerous
developing countries suggests that this harm can Note: Child mortality refers to th e probability of dying
be offset by the health benefits that her earnings between birth and age 5; the period over which the rate
bring. of-mortality decline is averaged differs from the period
used for income per capita growth to take account of lags
Because fewer people live in poverty as average in the relation between the two rates.
incomes rise, there is generally a strong link be­ Source: World Bank data.
tween incomes and health status. Across coun­
tries, more than 75 percent of the difference in
health is associated with income differences. In­
deed, this relation is not merely associative but countries and by as much as 4 to 8 percent in Cote
causal and structural: income growth leads di­ d'Ivoire and Ghana.
rectly to better health. In a sample of fifty-eight These findings highlight the costs to health of
developing countries, a 10 percent increase in in­ slow economic growth. Child health has been im­
come per capita, all else being equal, reduced in­ proving everywhere, but gains are much less rapid
fant and child mortality rates by between 2.0 and in countries with slow income growth (Figure 2.3).
3.5 percent and increased life expectancy by a During the 1980s the economic performance of de­
month. This estimate reflects the total impact of veloping countries was mixed, with income per
income on health; it includes effects working di­ capita constant or falling, and in some countries
rectly through income (such as food consump­ the incidence of poverty rose (Table 2.1). Had eco­
tion), as well as indirectly through factors that an; nomic growth been as fast in the 1980s as in the
themselves mainly determined by income (access period between 1960 and 1980, in 1990 alone an
to safe water and sanitation, availability of physi­ estimated 350,000 infant deaths, or 6 percent of
cians, and so on). Studies based on individual total infant deaths, would have been averted in
households corroborate the cross-country results. developing countries (excluding India and China).
A 10 percent advantage in income reduces infant In Africa and Latin America, where average
mortality by between 1 and 2 percent in Nigeria, growth was 2.5 percentage points slower during
Sri Lanka, Thailand, and several Latin American the 1980s, the saving in babies' lives in 1990 would

41


--- Page 56 ---
Table 2.1 Poverty and growth of income per Bangladesh, for example, found that over a period
capita by developing region, 1985 and 1990, of two years following the death of a mother, mor­
and long- and medium-term trends tality rates, in comparison with those of children
Annual percentage with living mothers, were twice as high for boys
Head-count ofpovertya per capita index change in income and three times as high for girls.

Region 1985 1990 1970-92 1982-92 Education greatly strengthens women's ability
All developing to perform their vital role in creating healthy
countries 30.5 29.7 1.7 0.8 households. It increases their ability to benefit
Sub-Saharan from health information and to make good use of
Africa 47.6 47.8 -0.2 c-1.1 health services; it increases their access to income
East Asia 13.2 11.3 5.3 6.3 and enables them to live healthier lives. It is not
South Asia 51.8 49.0 2.0 3.0 surprising, therefore, that a child's health is af­
Eastern Europe 7.1 7.1 1.2 1.7 fected much more by the mother's schooling than
Middle East and by the father's schooling. Data for thirteen African
North Africa 30.6 33.1 0.1 -1.6 countries between 1975 and 1985 show that a 10
Latin America
and the percent increase in female literacy rates reduced
Caribbean 22.4 25.2 1.1 -0.2 child mortality by 10 percent, whereas changes in
Note: Regional data on annual change in income per capita refer to male literacy had little influence. Demographic
unweighted country averages. The regions used in this table are as and Health Surveys in twenty-five developing
defined in the World Development Indicators, except for Eastern
Europe, which includes Albania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Ro­ countries show that, all else being equal, even one
mania, the former Czechoslovakia, and the former Socialist Federal to three years of maternal schooling reduces child
Republic of Yugoslavia. Disaggregated data for the last two are not
yet available. mortality by about 15 percent, whereas a similar
a. Estimated share of the population consuming less than $32 per level of paternal schooling achieves a 6 percent
person per month at 1985 purchasing power parity prices.
Source: For poverty index, World Bank 1993c; for change in income reduction. The effects increase when mothers have
per capita, World Bank data. had more education; in Peru, for example, seven
or more years of maternal schooling reduces the
have been as much as 7 and 12 percent, respec­ mortality risks nearly 75 percent, or about 28 per­
tively. Latin America's recession in 1983 is esti­ cent more than the reduction for the same level of
mated to have caused 12,000 additional deaths of paternal schooling (Figure 2.4). Countries that in
babies, or 2 percent of all infant deaths in that year. 1965 had achieved near-universal enrollment for
And because slow economic growth hampers pov­ boys but much less for girls had about twice the
erty reduction and constrains spending on health, infant mortality in 1985 of countries with a smaller
schooling, and other services, it is highly likely boy-girl gap.
that the health of the poor suffered dispropor­ The advantages that a mother's schooling con­
tionately in the 1980s. fers on her children's health are felt even before
birth. In developing countries better-educated
The influence of schooling on health women marry and start their families later, dimin­
ishing the risk to child health associated with early
Households with more education enjoy better pregnancies. Educated women also tend to make
health, both for adults and for children. This result greater use of prenatal care and delivery assis­
is strikingly consistent in a great number of tance. In a study in Lima that controlled for service
studies, despite differences in resec:rch methods, availability and socioeconomic status, 82 percent
time periods, and population samples. of women with six or more years of education
sought prenatal care, compared with only 62 per­
MATERNAL SCHOOLING AND CHILD HEALTH. In cent for women with no education.
most households women have the main responsi­ Following birth, the children of educated
bility for a broad range of activities that affest mothers continue to enjoy other health-enhancing
health. They manage household chores, keep the advantages: better domestic hygiene, which re­
house clean, process foods and prepare meals, duces the risk of infection; better food and more
feed and care for young children, and look after immunization, both of which reduce susceptibility
the sick. Women's own health and their efficiency to infection; and wiser use of medical services. A
in using available resources have an important study of women in Bangladesh documented how
bearing on the health of others in the family, par­ educated women kept their homes and children
ticularly children. A study of children under 10 in tidier and cleaner than uneducated women and

42


--- Page 57 ---
Child health depends more on the mother's than on the father's schooling.

Figure 2.4 Effect of parents' schooling on the risk of death by age 2
in selected countries, late 1980s

4-6 years of schooling 7 or more years of schooling

(in relation to parents with no schooling) Percentage reduction in child mortality Percentage reduction in child mortality
(in relation to parents with no schooling)
80 60 40 20 0 0 20 40 60 80

Indonesia

Kenya

Morocco

Peru

• Mother Ell Father

Source: Hobcraft 1993.

expressed a preference for water from tanks or example, 24 percent of the children of mothers
tubewells at home rather than from canals or with no education were stunted, compared with
rivers. In Brazil, India, and Nigeria better-edu­ only 11 percent of children of mothers with some
cated households are willing to pay 6 to 50 percent elementary schooling. Educated women are an im­
more than other households for improved water portant part of the reason for the impressive
supplies. health achievements of China, Costa Rica, India's
Educated mothers are also better at getting in­ Kerala State, and Sri Lanka, despite relatively low
formation on health and acting on it. In Brazil the incomes.
child health benefits of a father's education work
mostly through his income, whereas almost all the SCHOOLING AND ADULT HEALTH. Personal habits
effect of maternal education comes from learning and life-style choices affect adult health enor­
about health through newspapers, television, and mously. Because educated people tend to make
radio. In Thailand mothers with primary educa­ choices that are better for their health, there is of­
tion were 30 percent more likely than mothers ten a strong relation between schooling and
with no education to treat childhood diarrhea with health. A study of U.S. life expectancy at age 25
oral rehydration therapy or a homemade solution found that between the highest and the lowest
of salt and sugar; this figure rose to 90 percent for levels of education, the difference was about six
mothers with secondary or higher education. Sim­ years for white men and about five years for white
ilar results have been reported in countries as di­ women. These differences-which may partly re­
verse as Burundi, Colombia, Ghana, Morocco, and flect differences in income associated with educa­
Nigeria. And well-educated mothers often manage tion-have persisted since the 1960s.
to reduce the damage that poverty does to health. The same pattern occurs in developing coun­
Among poor rural households in Cote d'Ivoire, for tries. Surveys in Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana, Pakistan,

43


--- Page 58 ---
Schooling reduces the risk of adult ill health. ample, when the AIDS epidemic began, infection
was initially concentrated among well-educated
elites, but these same groups were the first to
Figure 2.5 Schooling and risk factors for change their life-styles as information became
adult health in Porto Alegre, Brazil, 1987 available about the disease and its prevention. In
Brazil between 1982 and 1985, 79 percent of those
Prevalence of risk (percent) infected had completed postsecondary education;
100 by the late 1980s this group's share of cases had
fallen to 33 percent. Even more striking is the way
that well-educated people have changed their be­
havior on smoking. In the United Kingdom the
proportion of smokers among adults declined be­
tween 1958 and 1975 by 50 percent among the
most educated but hardly changed among the
least educated. In the United States between 1974
and 1987 the smoking habit declined nine times
faster in the highest education group than in the
lowest. The corresponding difference was twofold
in Canada and threefold in Norway.

Policies to strengthen household capacity

Because people's ability to improve their own
D No schooling health depends so much on income and educa­
• Postsecondary schooling tion, the policy conclusions are clear : governments
should work to boost economic growth, reduce
poverty, expand schooling (particularly for girls),
Source: Achutti and others 1988. and help strengthen women's ability to care for
their families. This section deals with each of these
points in turn.

and Peru show that respondents whose parents Promoting growth and reducing poverty
were educated were more likely to have living par­
ents than those with uneducated parents. In Peru During the 1980s the pattern of economic growth
72 percent of the educated fathers of respondents in developing countries was very uneven. Income
ages 25-29 were still alive at the time of the survey, per capita grew at more than 6 percent a year in
compared with only 55 percent of the uneducated East Asia but remained constant or fell in many
fathers. In Jamaica education had a bigger influ­ other countries. The disappointing record re­
ence on adult health than did income, particularly flected the impact of adverse external shocks as
before age 50. Death rates for specific diseases also well as poor domestic policies . Nonetheless, some
show educational differentials . In Russia death economies grew rapidly despite the external
from coronary heart disease was two to three shocks, showing that a great deal can be done by
times more common for the poorly educated than developing countries themselves .
for those with higher education. In Brazil those Because it is difficult to reduce poverty without
who were illiterate or who had only primary economic growth, establishing sound economic
schooling were about five times more likely to policies for growth is one of the most valuable
have high blood pressure than those with post­ things a government can do. Development strate­
secondary schooling. The first group was also sub­ gies also need to emphasize broadly based growth
stantially more inclined to obesity, alcohol and to­ to give the poor better income-earning oppor­
bacco consumption, and lack of exercise (Figure tunities and better access to a range of social ser­
2 .5). vices . To protect the most vulnerable members of
The advantages of education continue to show society, it is appropriate for governments to make
up when new types of health risk appear. For ex- transfers and other special arrangements.

44


--- Page 59 ---
POLICY REFORM AND ADJUSTMENT LENDING. As a equal, middle-income countries in the "intensive"
consequence of the economic crisis of the early group boosted their growth rates during 1986-90
1980s, many developing countries changed their by an estimated average of about 4 percentage
economic policies. They adopted macroeconomic points a year over what would probably otherwise
reforms intended to achieve price stability and sus­ have occurred. The low-income countries, espe­
tainable internal and external monetary balance cially in Sub-Saharan Africa, did less well; for
and made microeconomic and institutional re­ them, the benefit was 2 percentage points.
forms to promote the efficient use of resources and Since health is helped by economic recovery and
faster economic growth. These changes typically faster long-term growth, adjustment lending, by
involved cuts in public spending, the opening of facilitating economic progress, benefits health in
the economy to competition, liberalization of the long run. When a government has to adjust­
prices, measures to improve the efficiency of pub­ in response to economic shocks or to rectify mis­
lic expenditure, and the development of a sound taken past policies-the whole society, poor and
financial system and other institutions needed in a nonpoor, may suffer short-run reductions in em­
well-functioning market economy. ployment and wages. But the resulting fall in in­
To support these reforms, the World Bank and come is caused not so much by policies associated
the International Monetary Fund have extended with adjustment lending as by the necessity for the
adjustment lending. The purpose of this lending is country to curb its consumption; without adjust­
to cushion an economy during the transitional ment loans, even greater decreases in consump­
phase to its new growth path. Adjustment lending tion would probably have been necessary. None­
is therefore essentially an investment in a more theless, adjustment lending can take five or more
productive future. It has been central to the re­ years to bear fruit, and the transition can be pain­
forms in Latin America and Sub-Saharan Africa ful because incomes may fall in the short run. Evi­
and important in other regions as well. Its role will dence from Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America
continue in the 1990s: it is already a major channel suggests that economic downturns are associated
of assistance for the formerly socialist economies; _ with less favorable child mortality outcomes than
it is being used for the first time in India; and it has would be predicted from long-term trends. In
both old and new clients in other parts of the countries where child mortality rates are declining
world. over time, for example, adjustment lending would
Nonetheless, adjustment lending remains con­ be associated, in the short run, with a slower rate
troversial. Does it really raise long-term growth? of decline. To minimize such adverse effects, some
Do the poor suffer as a consequence of such ad­ countries have begun to use resources, including
justment policies as cuts in public spending and adjustment loans, to support nutrition programs
liberalization of food and other prices? How is for vulnerable children, as well as basic health and
health affected? The answers to these questions other social services targeted to the poor.
are complicated because adjustment lending is nei­
ther necessary nor sufficient for policy reform. ADJUSTMENT LENDING AND PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
Some of the most dramatic "adjustment" reforms ON HEALTH. Because cuts in government spending
took place without adjustment lending (as in Chile are usually central to an adjustment program,
and Viet Nam), and some countries that received health spending is likely to be reduced. In many
adjustment loans did little or nothing to pursue countries early cuts were indiscriminate and failed
reforms (for example, Tanzania and Zambia). In to preserve those elements of the health system
addition, because a country's economic perfor­ with the strongest long-term benefits for health.
mance is affected by many factors, it is hard to Drugs were often cut more heavily than personnel
isolate the part played by adjustment lending. because it is difficult to lay off public employees.
Despite these difficulties, World Bank studies on Cote d'Ivoire's experience illustrates the mistakes
the impact of adjustment lending are reveali!lg. that occurred in some early programs of economic
The research looked at countries in the "intensive adjustment. With real income per capita falling 19
adjustment lending" group (which includes coun­ percent between 1980 and 1984, the government
tries that received at least two structural adjust­ cut public spending, among other measures.
ment loans or three sectoral adjustment loans by Health expenditure dropped in real terms by 12
1990, with the first loan started by mid-1986) and percent between 1981 and 1984. But personnel
found that in general they did achieve faster costs were not cut; instead public expenditures on
growth than in other countries. All else being medicines and materials absorbed the reduction,

45


--- Page 60 ---
Public spending on health recovered faster in countries that received adjustment lending.

Figure 2.6 Deviation from mean levels of public spending on health in countries receiving and
not receiving adjustment lending, 1980-90

Deviation in share of country income spent Deviation in per capita spending
(percentage points) (1991 dollars)
0 .35 8
0.30 I 6
\ NonreCipients I . 1. I
0.20 4 \ Recipients _....
0 .10 ~ .\ 2 [.)\ ~ Nonrecipients I
'-/ Recipients 0 I......... I
0 \ 1\ " " -I / -
I" ~ 1 v -2 \ \
-0 .10 / """" 1-- -4 / "" /
' v "
-0.20 - -6
1980 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 1980 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90

Nole : Re cipi e nts of adjustment lendin g include countries th a t received two structural adjustm e nt loans or three or more
adjustm e nt operations, a ll effecti ve b y June 1990, with the first operation effective in or before June 1986. Data were availabl e
for the following countries in this group: Bolivia, Brazil , Chile, Costa Rica , Kenya, Republic of Korea, Mauritius, Mex ico,
Pakist a n, Philippines, Turkey, and Uruguay. Nonrecipients are countries th a t had not received adjustment lending by Jun e
1990. Data were availabll' for Burkina Faso, Dominic,m Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Guatemala, Liberi a, Malaysia, and
Papu a New Guinea .
Source : Ya z beck, Ta n, <1lld Ta nzi, ba ckground paper.

shrinking in real terms by more than one-third ticularly in rural areas, have been improving as a
during the first half of the 1980s . In rural clinics, result .
already precarious supplies of basic consumables Various studies have assessed the effect of ad­
became even scarcer . justment programs on public spending on health .
The implications for child health looked grim . Most have found that central government expen­
Cross-sectional data show that the nutritional sta­ diture on health in countries with adjustment
tus of Ivorian children is strongly related to the lending programs did not suffer more than else­
availability of drugs in the community . All else be­ where ; this result, however, is not definitive be­
ing the same, the difference in height-for-age (a cause state and local governments are often re­
measure of long-run nutritional status) of children sponsible for a substantial share of public
in communities lacking basic medicines and those spending on health . More comprehensive data
in well-supplied communities was equivalent to available for twenty countries during 1980-90
more than one-third of the difference between the show that in both countries with and without ad­
average child in Cote d'lvoire and in the United justment loans, public spending on health as a
States . The health of children from poor families percentage of total country income declined in the
suffers even more when drugs are unavailable . early 1980s in relation to the average for the dec­
Since 1990 the government has begun putting ade. In 1985-90, however, health spending recov­
more resources into nonwage health inputs: their ered much faster in countries with adjustment pro­
share of the health budget rose from 20 percent in grams . Similarly, per capita public spending on
1991 to 24 percent in 1993. Health services, par- health also recovered faster in such countries (Fig-

46


--- Page 61 ---
ure 2.6). Unfortunately, the data are not good they complete even the first few years of basic edu­
enough to allow any judgment on whether adjust­ cation. Fewer than 60 percent of first-graders in
ment programs directly helped to ensure that pub­ the lowest-income countries and about 70 percent
lic spending on health was efficient. (And, as this of those in the lower-middle-income countries
Report will show, not all health spending deserves reach the last year of primary school.
to be protected; some of it is inefficient and Enrollments are particularly low in isolated rural
regressive.) areas, for lower socioeconomic groups, and for
girls. In developing countries as a group, about 10
Expanding and improving schooling percent of boys ages 6-11 do not enroll; for girls in
the same age group the figure is 40 percent. Espe­
In general, developing countries have made much cially in poor countries, the gaps can be substan­
progress in expanding schooling since the 1960s, tial, as Figure 2.7 illustrates for India. But Sri
but the trends conceal some shortcomings. In the Lanka's experience shows that this gender gap is
poorest countries, especially in Africa, many chil­ not an inevitable consequence of poverty.
dren never go to school at all. In Mali, for example, Leaving aside the gaps in enrollment, education
fully 77 percent of all school-age children never go in many countries is inadequate. Even children
to school-a figure that has remained largely un­ who complete primary school fail to acquire basic
changed since 1980. Of those who do go to school, literacy and numeracy skills and scientific under­
many often enroll late-thus missing the benefits standing. These weaknesses in the education sys­
of early learning opportunities-and leave before tem reduce the potential impact of schooling on

Substantial male-female gaps in schooling persist in some low-income countries.

' Figure 2.7 Enrollment ratios in India, by grade, about 1980

Enrollment ratio (percent)
100

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Primary grades Middle grades Secondary grades

fill Boys • Girls

Note: The enrollment ratio is the share of children in the age group corresponding to a given grade who are enrolled
in that grade.
Source: Tan 1md Mingat 1992.

47


--- Page 62 ---
Box 2.2 Teaching schoolchildren about health: radio instruction in Bolivia

Many personal habits and life-style choices that have basic health concepts and practices at a young age are
important consequences for health are formed early in more likely to maintain them as parents.
life. Health education in schools can help young people It is still too early to assess the long-term health im­
make informed choices and so reinforce the effect of pact of teaching health lessons through radio. None­
schooling on health. theless, pupils already show significant gains in several
Bolivia has had success with health education areas, including ability to recognize symptoms of dehy­
through radio lessons. Radio instruction was first intro­ dration and knowledge of the proper mixture and ap­
duced in 1987 for teaching mathematics and proved to plication of homemade oral rehydration solution.
be both inexpensive (with costs per pupil averaging There is also evidence of increased hand-washing , and
less than $1 a year) and effective. In 1989 the health and more households are using simple water filters .
education ministries began to ·try out the use of radio The radio program is now being expanded. In 1993
for teaching disease prevention to schoolchildren, more than 1,000 third- and fourth-grade classrooms
starting with a module on diarrhea prevention and oral will receive broadcasts of a new curriculum that in­
rehydration. Children ages 8-13 were targeted because cludes lessons on cholera, personal and dental hy­
they often take care of younger siblings and perform giene, acute respiratory infections, immunizations, in­
household chores involving food preparation and sani­ fectious diseases, and accident prevention. Nutrition,
tation . They thus have a strong influence on their own environmental health, and self-esteem are to be added
health and that of younger siblings. The radio health in 1994. In response to parents ' requests, a comple­
program emphasizes actions that a child can do for ·mentary community-based radio program is also being
himself or herself or can do for or teach to a younger developed and tested.
sibling. It rests on the belief that children who learn

health. More important, they also reduce parents' - than a third of girls reach this level, and in China
willingness to enroll their children, thus perpetu­ and Latin America only 60 percent do . Achieving
ating a vicious cycle of poor schooling and poor 5,000 hours of schooling for all children will thus
health. In India, for example, more than 40 percent require significant and sustained policy effort in
of parents in a nationwide survey cited either "not large parts of the world. To reinforce the effects of
interested in education/further study" or "fail­ school expansion on health, it may be useful to
ure'' as the main reason for not sending their chil­ include health topics in school curricula (see Box
dren to school. 2 .2).
Much more needs to be done to extend educa­ Incomplete enrollments reflect the combined in­
tion in developing countries. Government support fluence of weak demand for education (which is
for schooling at the lower levels and for girls is partly caused by low achievement) and inadequate
especially justified : the benefits for society are schooling opportunities. To overcome these obsta­
large, and poor families in low-income countries cles requires a combination of policies . Govern­
typically undervalue the benefits of sending chil­ ments can do more to ensure that lower levels of
dren to school or are unaware of them . In addi­ schooling receive priority in the allocation of pub­
tion, for such families the opportunity costs of lic spending. In some countries, current levels of
sending children to school are often high. A policy resources for primary schooling are insufficient to
priority is to ensure that every child receives a support even minimal conditions for instruction .
minimum quantity of schooling-say, 5,000 hours, In India public spending per primary pupil in rela­
or roughly six full years of schooling. This would tion to income per capita averages only one-third
be consistent with the aims of the 1990 World Con­ that in Korea, basically because much more of In­
ference on Education for All, sponsored by the dia's public expenditure on education goes to
United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cul: higher education. In Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauri­
tural Organization (UNESCO), UNICEF, the tania, and Niger one-quarter of the education bud­
UNDP, and the World Bank. Most pupils in devel­ get is for higher education, and between 60 and 80
oping countries currently receive much less than percent of that quarter is devoted to scholarships
5,000 hours of schooling in the primary grades (be­ and other forms of student aid. This, it can be
cause of pupil and teacher absences caused by argued, is inefficient, and it is also extremely re­
sickness, among other factors). In India no more gressive because most of the benefits of higher ed-

48


--- Page 63 ---
ucation are captured privately in the form of in­ and that of their families. Removing discrimina­
creased earnings and because students tend to tion-in the labor market, in access to credit, in
come from higher-income families. property law, and so on-can boost women's
On its own, spending more resources for pri­ earnings and financial security, which (as an ear­
mary schools is not enough. Whatever is spent lier section has shown) can promote family health.
must also be used efficiently. And women need to be healthy themselves to ful­
Although the health and nutrition of school-age fil their roles as mothers and household managers.
children are not normally thought of as education They have specific health needs, including protec­
issues, in fact they do affect a child's school atten­ tion against violence. More than one-third of the
dance and performance. Allocating resources to global burden of disease for women ages 15-44,
address health problems in this population can of­ and over one-fifth of that for women ages 45-59, is
ten be an efficient way to improve schooling. (Spe­ caused by conditions that afflict women exclu­
cific interventions are discussed in Chapter 4.) sively (maternal mortality and morbidity and cer­
Teachers and pedagogical materials are the main vical cancer) or predominantly (anemia, sexually
school inputs at lower levels of schooling (with transmitted diseases, osteoarthritis, and breast
teacher salaries absorbing the bulk of spending). cancer). Most of these problems can be addressed
Efficient use of these inputs is thus crucial, par­ cost-effectively, but health services in many devel­
ticularly in countries where rapid population oping countries have typically focused narrowly
growth threatens to reverse progress in expanding on women as mothers.
enrollments. In Mauritania, for example, if spend­ What is lacking is a strategy for engaging
ing per pupil and the share of primary schooling in women in health care from adolescence onward.
total government expenditure remain constant, Often this failing occurs because health services
the enrollment ratio in primary schools is pro­ are insensitive to the cultural needs of women: in
jected to drop from 51 percent in 1988 to 45 percent many Middle Eastern countries, for example, most
by 2000. To forestall such regress, maximizing the physicians are men, but there is a strong belief that
learning gain per unit cost and making the correct women should not be seen after puberty by men
tradeoffs between unit costs and coverage are of who are not part of their family. Inconvenience is
particular importance. A recent World Bank-spon­ another deterrent; in many countries individual
sored review found expenditures on nonsalary in­ health services (for example, prenatal care and im­
puts such as textbooks and interactive radio in­ munizations) are offered on different days, mean­
struction to be most cost-effective in improving ing that women have to return repeatedly with
learning outcomes. their children. The solution is often as feasible as it
In some circumstances it may also be right to is clear: to provide child health services, prenatal
spend more to lower the barriers to schooling for care, treatment of sexually transmitted diseases,
girls and other disadvantaged groups. This can be and family planning services jointly at convenient
done in many ways: through scholarships (used in times. The Bangladesh Women's Health Coalition
Bangladesh to encourage girls to go to secondary and the Chilean Institute of Reproductive Medi­
school); by offering free textbooks or fee-exemp­ cine, for example, offer integrated family planning
tions; or by siting schools close to pupils' homes so services at the same time as child health services,
that parents are less worried about their daugh­ and Thailand is experimenting with mobile health
ters' safety. In Pakistan, for example, girls are as clinics to reach women in their homes.
likely to enroll as boys when there is a school in The design of health services must also be sensi­
the village but are 10 percent less likely to do so tive to the stigmas surrounding certain diseases,
when the school is nearby but not in the village. In especially any that are sexually transmitted or
several African countries distance education­ physically disfiguring. Women are more likely to
whereby radio and correspondence materials re­ seek treatment for sexually transmitted diseases if
place classroom teachers as the principal medium health centers offer multiple services, with privacy
of instruction-has sometimes helped to overcome in consultations, so that it is not obvious why a
the physical barriers to schooling for girls. person is visiting the center. Diseases that damage
the skin (such as leprosy, onchocerciasis, and
Empowering women leishmaniasis) have severe psychological implica­
tions for girls and women, reduce their marriage
In addition to education, other policies can en­ prospects, and may lead to marital separation. In
hance women's capacity to improve their health Colombia and India women tend to seek treatment

49


--- Page 64 ---
Box 2.3 Violence against women as a health issue

Data from many industrial and developing countries woman ' s age ()r unhealthy habits (such ·as smoking). In
reveal that anywhere between one-fifth and more than addition to ph ysical injury and emotional trauma , rape
half of women surveyed say they have been beaten by Yictims run the risk of becoming pregnant or contra ct­
their partners. Often, this abuse is systematic and dev­ ing sexually transmitted diseases, including AIDS. A
astating . In Papua New Guinea , for example, 18 per­ rape crisis center in Bangkok reports that 10 percent of
cent · of all urban wive s surveyed had sought hospital its clients contract STDs as a result of rape and 15 to 18
treatment for inj JJries inflicted by their husbands . In percent become pregnant, a figure consistent with data
the United States domestic violence is the leading from Korea and Mexico. In countries where abortion is
cau s e of injury among women of reproductive age ; be­ restricted or illegal , rape victims often resort to unsafe
tween 22 and 35 percent of women who visit emer­ abortions, greatly increasing the danger of infertility or
gency rooms are there for that reason. even death.
Research has shown that battered women run twice Another form of violence against women and girls is
the risk of miscarriage and four times the risk of having fe!Jla)e genital mutilation, popularly known as female
a baby that is below average weight. In some places circumcision . An estimated 85 million to 114 million
violence also accounts for a sizable portion of maternal women in t he world today have experienced genital
deaths. In Matlab Than a, Bangladesh, for example, in­ mutilation. The practice . is reported in twenty-six Afri­
tentional injury during pregnancy -'- motivated by can countries , among minorities in India , Malaysia,
dowry disputes or shame over a rape or a pregnancy and Yemen, and among some immigrant populations
outside wedlock - caused 6 percent of all ~aternal in Western countries . If current trends continue , more
deaths between 1976 and 1986. Research from the than 2 million girls will be at risk of genital mutilation
United States indicates that battered women ;~re four to every y.ear,
five times as likely to require psychiatric treatment as Clitoridectomies account for 80 to 85 percent of
nonbattered women and are five times as likely to at­ cases worldwide. Infibulation, which involves removal
tempt suicide. They are also more prone to alcohol of more tissue, is more common in eastern Africa.
abuse, drug dependence, chronic pain, and These initiation rituals pose a health risk to girls and
depression . women and are a threat to their psychological , sexual,
Rape and sexual abu s e also damage women ' s health and reproductive well-being . The consequences of
and are widespread in all regions, classes, and cul­ both procedures can include hemorrhage, tetanus, in ­
tures . In Seoul 17 percent of women report being vic­ fection, urine retention, and shock . Infibulation carries
tims of attempted or actual rape . In one study of U . S : the added risk of long-term complications because of
women a history of rape or assault was a stronger pre­ the repeated cutting and stitching at marriage and with
dictor of how many times women sought medical help each childbirth, and it can limit a woman's choice of
and of the severity of their health problems than was a contraceptive method .

for leprosy later than men do, when patches have cent of the total disease burden among women
already reached the face and hands; they are reluc­ ages 15-44 in developing countries, where the bur­
tant to ask for help when the first patches appear, den from maternal and communicable causes still
on the buttocks . Again, sensitivity is needed to overwhelms that from other conditions . In indus­
encourage women to come forward. trial countries, where the total disease burden is
The same is true of another category of danger much smaller, this share rises to 19 percent . By
to women's health: domestic violence and rape. damaging a woman's physical, mental and emo­
Violence against women is widespread in all coun­ tional capacity to care for her family, domestic vio­
tries in which it has been studied (see Box 2 .3). lence and rape also hurt the health of other family
Although this has only recently been viewed as a members, particularly young children.
public health issue, it is a significant cause of fe­ This is an issue with complex economic, cul­
male morbidity and mortality, leading to psycho­ tural, and legal roots, and it is therefore not easily
logical trauma and depression, injuries, sexually dealt with by public policies. Prevention will re­
transmitted diseases, suicide, and murder. Rape quire a coordinated response on many fronts . In
and domestic violence cause a substantial and the short to medium term , the right measures in­
roughly comparable level of disease burden per clude training health workers to recognize abuse,
capita to women in developing and industrial expanding treatment and counseling services, and
countries . These problems account for about 5 per- enacting and enforcing laws against battering and

50


--- Page 65 ---
rape. In the long term, much depends on changing achievements of the past point to the requirements
cultural beliefs and attitudes toward violence of the future-above all, to economic growth and
against women. In Africa women's groups have the expansion of schooling and health services .
worked to break the practice of female circumci­ According to World Bank projections , income per
sion, partly by informing people of its severe con­ capita in Sub-Saharan African countries will grow
sequences for health . In the United States the by only 0.8 percent a year over the next ten years .
American Medical Association launched a major Even this modest increase will bring about a de­
campaign in 1991 to educate the public and physi­ cline in the infant mortality rate of between 2 and 4
cians about family violence. Research shows that percent . In South Asia, where faster growth-3 .3
even health professionals often fail to identify percent a year-is projected, infant mortality de­
cases of battering. Recently, the U.S . Joint Com­ clines of 15 percent can be expected .
mission on Hospital Accreditation issued new These benefits can be powerfully reinforced by
standards requiring all hospitals to develop proto­ better education and health services. In Africa in­
cols and train their staffs to respond to different creasing female literacy rates by 10 per cent is likely
forms of abuse. In Colombia the Ministry of to lower the infant mortality rate by an estimated
Health has begun to document the scale of the 10 percent . In India and Kenya two maternal
problem in its most recent Demographic and deaths and about forty-five infant deaths would be
Health Survey. These efforts come on the heels of averted for every 1,000 girls provided with one
almost two decades of organizing efforts by extra year of primary schooling . Even in poor
women around the world; in Latin America alone countries governments can enhance people's abil­
there are now nearly 400 separate organizations ity to improve their own health by expanding
working to reduce violence against women. schooling opportunities for all children-with spe­
cial efforts to encourage parents to enroll their
What can be done? daughters-and by widening access to health ser­
vices, particularly for women and children . Such
Around the world, much has already been done to investments pay off in better health and provide a
enable people to live longer, healthier lives. The foundation for future economic growth .

51


--- Page 66 ---
The roles of the government and the market
in health

World spending on health totaled about $1,700 bil­ tion, and other sectors important for health, as
lion in 1990, or 8 percent of global income. Of this, well as through regulation of health systems,
governments spent more than $1,000 billion, or health providers, and insurers. Governments fur­
nearly 60 percent. Of the $170 billion spent on ther affect health by their impact on household
health in the developing countries of Africa, Asia, income and educational levels (as discussed in
and Latin America, governments spent half the Chapter 2), by financing public health services,
total amount-2 percent of those regions' GNP. In and by providing care directly . What governments
the established market economies, where total . do varies enormously from country to country, but
health spending was almost $1,500 billion, govern ­ every government plays an important role.
ments spent just over $900 billion-more than 5 Three economic rationales justify and guide a
percent of GNP (Table 3 .1) . The sheer size of these government role in health . They are discussed in
expenditures on health makes it critical to under­ greater detail in ''The rationales for government
stand the impact of government policies on peo­ action,'' below.
ple's health. But governments profoundly influ­ • The poor cannot always afford health care
ence health in less direct ways, through their that would improve their productivity and well­
policies toward education, water supply, sanita- being. Publicly financed investment in the health

Table 3.1 Global health expenditure, 1990
Public sector health
Percentage expenditure Total health expenditure Health as percentage expenditure Percentage of GNP Per health per capita capita Ratio of
Demographic region population dollars) of world (billions of of world total as percentage of regional total spent on health expenditure spending (dollars) (SSA ~ 1)

Established market economies 15 1,483 87 60 9.2 1,860 78.9
Formerly socialist economies
of Europe 7 49 3 71 3.6 142 6.0
Latin America 8 47 3 60 4.0 105 4.5
Middle Eastern crescent 10 39 2 58 4.1 77 3.3
Other Asia and islands 13 42 2 39 4.5 61 2.6
India 16 18 22 6.0 21 0 .9
China 22 13 59 3.5 11 0.5
Sub-Saharan Africa 10 12 55 4.5 24 1.0
Demographically developing
countries 78 170 10 50 4.7 41 1.7
World 100 1,702 100 60 8.0 329 13 7
Note: SSA, Sub-Saharan Afr ica.
Source: Appendix table A.9.

52


--- Page 67 ---
of the poor can reduce poverty or alleviate its education bring. The second factor is the amount
consequences. and effectiveness of expenditure in the health sys­
• Some actions that promote health are pure tem. The third factor is the range of diseases pre­
public goods or create large positive externalities. sent, which is determined largely by climate and
Private markets would not produce them at all or geography. Effective health policy takes account of
would produce too little. different disease prevalences but is not simply de­
• Market failures in health care and health in­ termined by them.
surance mean that government intervention can Differences in health spending are an obvious
raise welfare by improving how those markets starting point in the search for an explanation of
function. differences in health. In 1990 total annual health
Any potential benefits from greater public sector spending ranged from less than $10 per person in
involvement in health must be weighed against several African and Asian countries to more than
the risk that governments will in fact make matters $2,700 in the United States. There was also consid­
worse. For example, to satisfy special interest erable variation within regions. In Africa, Tanzania
groups, governments may adopt policies that re­ spent only $4 per capita for health in 1990, while
duce the general welfare. Even when they choose Zimbabwe spent $42 per person. In Asia, Ban­
correct policies, they may fail to implement them gladesh spent $7 per person each year, as against
properly. $377 in Korea. Since the share of GNP devoted to
Governments have a responsibility to spend health tends to rise with income, rich countries
well, to get "value for money," whenever they differ from poor ones even more in health expen­
devote public resources to health. This means al­ diture than in income.
locating resources so as to obtain the most im­ But health spending alone cannot explain all the
provement in health per public dollar, taking into variation in health among countries. Nor can in­
account the private market's response to public come and education, or even spending, income,
sector spending. Because private health care mar­ and schooling taken together. Figure 3.1 illustrates
kets can also fail to achieve value for money, gov­ the discrepancies. The vertical axis shows how far
ernment policy has a role in providing information life expectancy in a country differs from the value
and incentives to improve the allocation of re­ predicted on the basis of that country's income
sources by the private sector. In most of the world and average schooling. France, Haiti, Singapore,
a great deal of additional health could be obtained and Syria have almost exactly the life expectancy
from a relatively small number of cost-effective in­ predicted. China, Costa Rica, Honduras, and Sri
terventions that could be delivered at modest cost Lanka, in the top half of the figure, all achieve five
and with little need for high-level facilities or years or more of life beyond what would be ex­
medical specialties. pected. Egypt, Ghana, Malawi, Uganda, the
United States, and Zambia, in the bottom half of
Health expenditures and outcomes the figure, all have a life expectancy about five
years lower than expected, given their levels of
Chapter 1 showed how greatly health status dif­ income and education.
fers among populations. Life expectancy ranges The horizontal axis of Figure 3.1 shows how far
from forty years or less in some countries of Sub­ total health spending differs from the value pre­
Saharan Africa to seventy-five or more in the es­ dicted by income and education. Egypt, Morocco,
tablished market economies. In Sub-Saharan Af­ Paraguay, Singapore, and Syria, in the left half of
rica half of all deaths occur under age 5; in the the figure, spend relatively little. France, Haiti, In­
established market economies half occur after age dia, Mozambique, and the United States, in the
74. Child mortality rates exceed 200 per 1,000 in right half, spend more than expected.
several African countries but are below 20 in the At any level of income and education, higher
richest countries. The burden of disease is five health spending should yield better health, all else
times higher, per capita, in the worst-off than in being equal. But there is no evidence of such a
the healthiest regions. relation. Countries are scattered in all quadrants of
Three factors help to explain these huge differ­ the figure. The countries that appear in the upper­
ences. The first is human behavior. Chapter 2 left quadrant obtain better health for less money.
showed that both health and the capacity to im­ China, for instance, spends a full percentage point
prove health are related to income and education less of its GNP on health than other countries at
and to the changes in behavior that wealth and the same stage of development but obtains nearly

53


--- Page 68 ---
Health expenditure, income, and schooling only partly explain variation in life expectancy.

Figure 3.1 Life expectancies and health expenditures in selected countries: deviations
from estimates based on GOP and schooling

Deviation from predicted life expectancy (years)

10 f- 0 Better outcome, China Better outcome,
lower expenditure higher expenditure
Sri Lanka 0 Costa Rica 0

I- 0 Honduras
5 Greece 0 • •
Paraguay • India
o o• • • 0 • • •
Morocco • • • • • ... . Haiti
0 .. • -- ... .._~ --.
0 O syria .. •• O France ...,
\
Singapore • • • • ''· 0 Mozambique
• • .. , •

-5 . I- 0 United States 0 Egypt Malawi
Ghana 0 • 0
Worse outcome, Zambia Worse outcome, 0 O uganda
lower expenditure higher expenditure ,,

I I I I I I I. ' i _it
-10
-5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
Deviation from predicted percentage of GDP spent on health

So11rce: World Bank data.

ten years of additional life expectancy. Singapore than predicted to achieve several years less of life
spends about 4 percent less of its income on health expectancy than would be typical for its high in­
than others at the same level of development but come and high educational level.
achieves the same life expectancy. Other coun­ Analyses using other measures of health status,
tries, of which Costa Rica and India are examples, such as child mortality, yield similar results. This
obtain relatively good health results but also spend raises obvious and important questions. What ac­
relatively more. (In the case of India health spend­ counts for these large deviations? How much is
ing is low and health status is poor, but even lower attributable to the characteristics of health sys­
spending and worse status would be expected for tems? How can public policy help to provide better
a country with such low levels of income and health outcomes for a given national effort?
schooling.) Egypt and Zambia, by contrast, get
poor health for a lower-than-predicted level of The rationales for government action
spending. Finally, it is possible both to spend more
than predicted on health care and still achieve un­ Public policy in health is successful if it leads to
expectedly poor results. The United States is an increased welfare through better health outcomes,
extreme case, spending 5 percent more of GNP greater equity, more consumer satisfaction, or lower

54


--- Page 69 ---
total cost than would occur in the absence of public finance care: spending more can translate into
action. Of course, the pursuit of one or more of more services for the poorest or the same services
these objectives does not by itself justify govern- for more people, including the less poor. In prac-
ment intervention. There must be a basis for be- tice, very poor countries must target if they are to
lieving that the government can achieve a better offer the poor any meaningful health care.
outcome than private markets can. There are three Public goods and externalities are forms of market
broad reasons why that belief may be true: one failure that may justify government intervention.
centers on poverty and the equitable distribution The key characteristic of public goodswhich may
of health care and the other two involve market be products or servicesis that one individual can
failures. use them or benefit from them without limiting
Reduction or alleviation of poverty provides a others' consumption or benefit. As long as some-
straightforward rationale for public intervention in body pays, everybody benefitswhich makes it
health. Success in reducing poverty requires two difficult or impossible to find anybody altruistic
equally important strategies: promoting the use of enough to pay. Many public health interventions,
the most important asset of the poortheir labor such as wide-area control of disease vectors and
and increasing their human capital through access radio-based health information campaigns, are
to basic health care, education, and nutrition. As nearly pure public goods for which only the gov-
Chapter 1 showed, investment in the health of the ernment can ensure provision. Another public
poor raises their educability and productivity. It good, new scientific information, has contributed
gives them both the assets they need to lift them- enormously to the rapid improvements in health
selves from poverty and the immediate welfare during this century. Its continued creation will de-
gain of relief from physical suffering. Further- pend at least in part on governments. The right
more, in most societies providing health and edu- choice of interventions and the proper level of pro-
cation for the poor commands a degree of political vision of any public good require careful analysis
assent that is altogether lacking for transfers of in- of the health benefits in relation to the costs. Prices
come or of assets such as land. Investing in the provide no indication of what benefits are worth
health of the poor is an economically efficient because private markets do not supply public
and politically acceptable strategy for reducing goods. Nonprofit nongovernmental organizations
poverty and alleviating its consequences, as World (NGOs) may supply such goods but cannot fully
Development Report 1990 emphasized. substitute for government action.
If "the poor" are all those living on less than $1 Externalities, or spillovers of benefits or losses
(in real purchasing power) per day, they can typ- from one individual to another, characterize cases
ically neither afford much health care nor borrow in which a private market might function but
to pay for it. Simply transferring small amounts of would produce too much or too little. For example,
income to poor people would create relatively little curing an individual of tuberculosis also prevents
additional demand for health care. But because the transmission of the disease. But an individual's
poor are more sensitive to the price of medical care demand to be cured of tuberculosis (or of mild or
and also suffer a greater burden of disease than the asymptomatic sexually transmitted disease) is
nonpoor, access to free or low-cost care can pro- probably not affected by consideration of the risk
duce large increases in their consumption of health to others. If the externality is not taken into ac-
care. count, treatment will be priced too high in private
To ensure that subsidized health services actu- markets, and too little treatment will be given.
ally reach the poor, however, may require restric- Subsidies for treatment are therefore justified. An
tions, particularly on the kind of care that is paid example of negative externalities is a person's use
for by the public sector. Offering free care of all of antibiotics, which may, by increasing microbial
kinds to everybody typically leads to rationing of resistance to a drug, reduce the drug's value to
servicesgeographically or according to quality. others and increase their risks.
Such universal programs may not reach the poor Failures in markets for health care and health insur-
or improve their health. They may, however, com- ance provide a third rationale for government ac-
mand more political support than targeting, and tion to improve efficiency and, in the case of fail-
they more easily address the problems of insur- ures in the market for health insurance, to improve
ance markets that are discussed below. Who equity. One source of market failure, "adverse se-
should receive free care depends on the preva- lection," arises because individuals face different
lence of poverty and on the country's capacity to risks. Customers who know themselves to be at

55


--- Page 70 ---
high risk are motivated to buy more insurance and There is some moral hazard in the markets for
are more likely to use it. So it is in the insurer's house and vehicle insurance. The extreme form is
interest to find out who the high-risk customers when somebody burns down a house to collect the
are and either to exclude them or to compensate insurance or abandons a car and reports it as
for their greater risk by charging them higher pre- stolen. But unlike consumption of too much health
miums. (Higher prices for all customers would re- care, these actions are crimes, with penalties that
duce demand by low-risk people and therefore may greatly exceed the value of the asset. In any
push prices still higher.) Defensive efforts to ob- case, the insurer's potential liability is limited to
tain valuable information about risks add to the the (easily determined) market value of the asset.
cost of insured health care without improving All the limitations on moral hazard and adverse
health outcomes. selection are weaker in health insurance. It is
Adverse selection presents a serious problem for harder to identify individual risks, and still harder
risks existing at the time insurance is taken out, to attribute them to behavioral choices. There is no
but an even more complex problem arises from the market value for the human body and no possi-
fact that an initially low-risk person may become bility of abandoning one that is worn out and ac-
high-risk later in life. In principle, there should be quiring a new one. The lack of a natural limit on
insurance available specifically against this likeli- costs (since the asset being insured, the body, has
hood of increased risk, or else insurance should no price with which costs can be compared) distin-
cover a person's entire lifetime, with sharing of guishes health from other insurable risks.
risks that may arise in the distant future, as well as The difficulties in insurance markets carry over
of current ones. Neither solution is easy to imple- directly into markets for health care. If people have
ment because of the extreme uncertainty; insur- "too much" health insurance, they will have an
ance can cover known risks but not uncertainty incentive to use "too much" health care at too
about risks. high prices. Unfortunately the difficulty of judging
Another problem is the tendency of consumers health care risks and the impossibility of placing a
to use more of a service when its marginal cost to value on a living body make it impossible to deter-
them decreases. Insurance reduces or eliminates mine how much is "too much" in health care and
the marginal cost of health care to consumers. So, health insurance. Nor is making a consumer pay
providing insurance does not simply shift the way more for health care a sure way of reducing only
a given amount of health care is paid for but in- "unnecessary" demand.
creases the amount of care demanded. Failures of information make matters even
Because the financial cost of disease is reduced, worse. A patient who knew the likely outcome
people may take less care of their health, leading and the cost to him or her of every possible treat-
to more illness and more subsequent demand for ment might yet be able to choose rationally be-
care. Or they may protect their health more by tween gains and costs. But patients do not have
way of health care, paid for by insurance, and less such knowledge, and the medical professional
through their own behavior. Passing costs on to generally knows far more than the customer. This
others such as insurers because one does not bear asymmetry of information means that the provider
the full consequences of one's actions is called not only provides services but also decides what
"moral hazard." It arises because of uncertainty services should be provided. The result is a poten-
and because insurers cannot fully monitor con- tial conflict of interest between what the provider
sumers' behavior and make them responsible for stands to gain from selling more services and his
their decisions. Moral hazard also results when or her duty to do what is best for the patient. The
providers induce demand for services that neither patient is at even more of a disadvantage when
they nor consumers will pay for. sick and unable to make decisions or when deci-
Both adverse selection and moral hazard have sions must be made quickly because of threats to
more pernicious effects in markets for health in- life.
surance than in markets for insurance on houses The same potential for consumption of unneces-
or cars. Risks to houses are higher in areas prone sary services can arise any time a supplier is better
to earthquakes or hurricanes, but they are easy to informed than a customer. It is a notorious prob-
determine, and insurers respond by charging lem in car repair and home improvement services.
higher premiums in those areas. Similarly, car in- But in these sectors the insurer has more oppor-
surance premiums are higher for young drivers tunity to supervise the service provider, and the
and other identifiable groups at greater risk of ve- insurer may decide simply to replace the item
hicular accidents. rather than to repair it. Health insurers have no

56


--- Page 71 ---
replacement option. They may try to review pro- Since poor people typically cannot buy such care
fessionals' recommendations before agreeing to for themselves, there is a straightforward case for
pay for services, but health professionals often dis- public finance. Public health measures and essen-
agree about expected medical outcomes, and wait- tial clinical care together constitute a package of
ing for a second opinion may cause pain, suffer- health care that might justifiably be financed by
ing, and increased risk for the patient. general revenues, with perhaps some contribution
These problems constitute the market failure pe- from user fees. This strategy is also compatible
culiar to health: expenditure on medical care can with the argument that basic health care is a fun-
be extremely high, yet not all justified care is pro- damental right. Although most of the population
vided and much care of doubtful value is paid for. may be able to pay for such care, the government
Some people are denied insurance, while others has a responsibility to ensure that the poor, too,
may be overprotected. Those who do not pay the can exercise their rightat least to the extent that
full costs of treatment may take poorer care of their society can afford.
own health than they could. Many of the extra Third, the rationale that the government should
costs are paid by society as a whole. intervene in health care markets because of signifi-
The market for health care goods and services cant market failures applies particularly to the reg-
can also fail through imperfect competition among ulation of health care and health insurance. The
providers, which allows excess profits, inefficient government cannot finance all medical care for
use of resources, poor quality, and too little pro- which insurance might be desirable without wors-
duction. Sometimes governments themselves arti- ening the tendency toward higher costs and risk-
ficially stifle competition. For example, govern- ing de facto rationing of health care, which par-
ments may prohibit or interfere unduly with the ticularly hurts the poor. Beyond a well-defined
operation of private health care providers, particu- package of essential services, therefore, the role of
larly NGOs. Governments often also protect do- the government in clinical services should be lim-
mestic producers of drugs and vaccines. In Ban- ited to improving the capacity of insurance and
gladesh tetanus vaccine produced domestically at health care markets to provide discretionary care
government insistence had such low potency that whether through private or through social insur-
its use in 1989-92 risked thousands of lives before ance (earmarked taxes such as social security or
it was replaced with imported vaccine. other mandated arrangements). Of course, the
Economies of scale in productionwhich occur range of services included in the nationally de-
when a single large producer is much more effi- fined essential package will vary substantially
cient than many small onesalso lead to noncom- from country to country. To provide equitable ac-
petitive situations. In many parts of the world hos- cess for the poor, to address problems of adverse
pitals and specialists face little or no competition selection, and to contain costs, the governments of
because of economies resulting from large-scale almost all OECD countries have made available a
operation. Such situations may call for regulation comprehensive essential package with public (or
of the private market. publicly mandated) financing. Poorer countries
The three rationales for government interven- must, of necessity, define their essential packages
tion in the health sectorprovision of public more narrowly.
goods, reduction of poverty, and market failure Governments can further improve how markets
correspond roughly to three different kinds of ser- function by providing information about the cost,
vices. First, the services classified as public goods, quality, and outcome of health care. Simply by de-
and some of those characterized by large exter- fining an essential clinical package, the public sec-
nalities, constitute what is known as "public tor provides valuable guidance on what is and
health." Public health includes those services pro- what is not cost-effective. This distinction may
vided to the population at large or to the environ- then influence the design of private or social insur-
ment, such as spraying to control malaria. It also ance packages and the behavior of individual pro-
typically includes some services such as immun- viders or patients. Information on the relative cost-
zations that are not public goods but that carry effectiveness of different discretionary procedures
substantial externalities. is similarly valuable and might be used by insurers
Second, the inclusion of health care as part of a and providers to reduce costs and attract clients.
strategy for combating poverty justifies public fi- Neither theory nor experience points to a gen-
nancing of "essential" clinical or individual ser- eral rule on the extent to which the public sector
vices. These are highly cost-effective services that should provide health care directly, as distinct
would greatly improve the health of the poor. from financing it. Governments might have to

57


--- Page 72 ---
Box 3.1 Paying for tuberculosis control in China

Tuberculosis kills or debilitates more adults than any Charging tuberculosis patients had perverse effects.
other single infectious agent. Without appropriate When doctors and institutions expected to be reim-
treatment, 60 percent of those with the full-blown dis- bursed by insurance, they provided excessive diagnos-
ease will die. In China, it is estimated, more than tic tests and examinations during treatment and dis-
360,000 peoplemost of them poor peasantsdie of pensed higher-cost antibiotics that should have been
tuberculosis every year. Tuberculosis is best prevented reserved for the most resistant cases. Daunted by the
by curing infectious persons early in the course of dis- costs, many low-income victims failed to enter treat-
ease, thus interrupting transmission to others. Well- ment or dropped out early. There were no incentives to
run programs can cure 80 to 90 percent of patients; ensure that patients completed treatment or were
poorly administered programs cure 30 percent or less, cured. Because health system records showed very
leading to larger numbers of sustained cases of infec- high rates of cure for those who completed treatment,
tion and related deaths and to new infections. the government remained largely unaware of the dete-
China made substantial progress against tuber- riorating situation. The direct cost to the health system
culosis during the 1960s and 1970s, using standard of a poorly functioning program was nil, but the indi-
long-term (twelve to eighteen months) antibiotic ther- rect costs to the economyand the personal costs to
apy that was essentially free of charge. Since the early patients and their familieswere enormous.
1980s, however, infection rates in about half the coun- An estimated I million to 1.5 million additional tu-
try's provinces have stagnated or increased, despite berculosis cases remained infectious during the 1980s
the adoption of an improved short-course (six to eight because treatment was no longer free. Tens of millions
months) therapy. Much of the trend is attributable to of new infections were produced, and many of those
changed health-financing policies and, in particular, to infected will fall victim to the disease later in life.
the government's decision that health facilities should The development of drug-resistant strains was also ac-
be encouraged to charge patients for virtually all ser- celerated. Given appropriate policies, many of the
vices. Starting in 1981, health institutions had to earn more than 3 million persons who died of tuberculosis
much of their operating costs from sales of drugs and in China during the decade could have been saved,
services. Although base salaries were still funded from and the risk of infection for society could have been
the public budget, workers' bonuses, housing, and re- halved.
tirement benefits depended in part on institutional in- China, having recognized the problems caused by
come from service provision. Managers' investment charging for tuberculosis therapy, has begun a major
budgets were also linked to revenues from fees. A few national tuberculosis-control effort that provides sub-
public health services such as immunizations remained sidies for treatment and appropriate incentives for pro-
partially subsidized, but tuberculosis diagnosis and viders of care. Early results of this policy show dra-
treatment were not, despite drug costs of $30 to $80 per matic increases in the number of cases cured.
treatment.
-I

supply a package of essential health services di- In some circumstances market failure may im-
rectly where private care would not be feasible pose only slight welfare losses, and the benefit of
without high subsidiesfor example, in lightly correcting it may be outweighed by the costs of
populated, very poor areas. (In many parts of the government action. In other cases the losses from
developing world an alternative method of provid- failure to take account of positive externalities and
ing such services is to subsidize an NGO.) In most supplier-induced demand can be enormous. Pol-
circumstances, however, the primary objective of icy toward tuberculosis control in China provides
public policy should be to promote competition an example: elimination of some free health care
among providersincluding between the public and introduction of profit incentives in the provi-
and private sectors (when there are public pro- sion of health services dramatically reduced treat-
viders), as well as among private providers, ment rates, reversing progress against the disease
whether nonprofit or for-profit. CompetitionS and causing much needless suffering (Box 3.1).
should increase consumer choice and satisfaction Failures of government intervention can arise, how-
and drive down costs by increasing efficiency. ever, even when government action might be
Government supply in a competitive setting may sound policy.
improve quality or control costs, but noncompeti- Governments may misjudge how an interven-
tive public provision of health services is likely to tion will work in practice. Governments have only
be inefficient or of poor quality. partial control over how private actors respond,

58


--- Page 73 ---
and those responses can undermine the intended ments are most appropriate for affecting the
objective. Since 1971 physicians' fees in all pro- behavior of insurers, providers, and patients. This
vinces of Canada have been set by negotiation raises the question of how far the government
with provincial governments, and fees are no should itself act as an insurer, through social insur-
longer rising faster than the general price level. To ance, and how far it should regulate private in-
protect their incomes, particularly during the infla- surers. Each of these decisions involves tradeoffs
tionary period 1971-75, physicians carried out a among the objectives of health policy: better
greater number of procedures. This reaction was health outcomes, lower costs, more equity, and
strongest where real fees fell the most. The saving greater consumer satisfaction with the health sys-
in government expenditure was therefore much tem as a whole and with individual care.
less than had been anticipated.
Governments may not have the capacity to Value for money in health
administer or implement policies well. Indeed,
they may suffer from corruption and from sheer No matter how health services are organized and
incompetence. The examples of two donor- paid for, what they actually provide are health in-
financed public hospitals, each with 500 to 600 terventions: specific activities meant to reduce dis-
beds, in two Latin American countries illustrate ease risks, treat illness, or palliate the conse-
the problem. One was simply too large to adminis- quences of disease and disability. Debates about
ter and operate and therefore could not be used at whether health services should concentrate on
more than 60 percent of capacity. The other was so "vulnerable groups" such as children, pregnant
badly designed that it could not accommodate women, or the elderly, or about the relative roles
more than one-third the planned number of of hospitals versus health centers, or about pre-
patients. ventive versus curative activities, are at bottom de-
Governments are vulnerable to special inter- bates concerning the proper mixture of interven-
ests both within and outside the health system. By tions. In health, as in every other sector, customers
financing the training of unneeded physicians, by want value for the money spent on such interven-
paying for low-value discretionary services for bet- tionswhether they pay directly or indirectly, in
ter-off patients, and by protecting domestic indus- their roles as taxpayers or as buyers of health
tries, governments help create the interests that insurance.
later impede good policy, especially when quick Knowing the cost-effectiveness of a health inter-
responses are needed to meet changing circum- ventionthe net gain in health (compared with
stances or new opportunities. Even when society doing nothing) divided by the costcan be ex-
as a whole would gain, public action may fail be- tremely useful for both public and private deci-
cause it does not overcome the resistance of those sions. Governments can generate such informa-
who would lose as a result. tion, and they can use it in two ways. First, they
Perhaps the most fundamental problem facing can use it in determining whether a particular pub-
governments is simply how to make choices about lic sector intervention is cost-effective: this means
health care. Too often, government policy has con- judging the improvement in health compared with
centrated on providing as much health care as pos- what would have happened through private deci-
sible to as many people as possible, with too little sions in the absence of public action. (Chapter 4
attention to other issues. If governments are to addresses these issues for public health measures
finance a package of public health measures and and Chapter 5 for the public finance of essential
clinical services, there must be a way to choose clinical services.) Second, they can supply infor-
which services belong in the package and which mation about the outcomes and costs of different
will be left out. (The next section describes a mea- health interventions to consumers, providers, and
sure of cost-effectiveness for health interventions insurers, and this knowledge can increase the
that helps with this choice.) If financing is public value per health dollar spent in the private sector,
but provision is private, governments must decide including what is spent on discretionary services.
how to subsidize private care. The question of in- Private providers have no more incentive than
centives to providers raised by that issue also ap- public providers to measure health outcomes, but
plies to paying for publicly provided careto the they do face greater incentives to know their costs.
"internal market" in the public sector. And if gov- Cost information alone can promote allocative effi-
ernments are to influence the market for discre- ciency, as the experience of a Brazilian nonprofit
tionary services, they must decide what instru- maternal and child hospital demonstrates (Box

59


--- Page 74 ---
Box 3.2 Cost information and management decisions in a Brazilian hospital

The Instituto Materno-Infantil de Pernambuco (IMIP) is lations, it was evident that closing the intensive care
a private, nonprofit hospital founded in 1960 to serve unit (except for newborns) and strengthening other
the metropolitan area of Recife. In 1992 it received the services would save a greater number of children's
first UNICEF award to a "child-friendly" hospital in lives. In particular, since the children who died in the
Brazil in recognition of its work, particularly in the pro- hospital typically arrived very sick and often severely
I motion of breastfeeding. IMIP depends for 95 percent malnourished, it appeared more cost-effective to try to
of its revenue on contracts from the Instituto Nacional find high-risk children and treat them earlier. The strat-
de Assistência Médica e Previdência Social (INAMPS) egy used was to expand the network of small commu-
of Brazil's Ministry of Health. Annual spending runs nity health posts in the slum neighborhoods of Recife.
about $6 million. IMIP opened the first such posts in 1983; by 1986 infant
Starting in 1989, IMIP organized an accounting sys- mortality in those neighborhoods had fallen from 147
tem that divides services according to eleven cost cen- to 101 per 1,000 births.
ters for final output. Administrative, laundry, food, ra- The experience of IMIP illustrates three lessons
diology, laboratory, transport, and other nonfinal about cost-effective delivery of essential care. One is
services were assigned to these final outputs in propor- that allocative efficiency can be improved without com-
I tion to their measured or estimated use. plete information: medical professionals know much
IMIP must match its average costs to average reve- about outcomes and often need only to know more
nues determined by the price schedule of INAMPS, about costs. A second lesson is that autonomy facili-
which is organized by treatment groups rather than by tates such changes: since private facilities generally
I individual services. Losses in any cost center must be have much more autonomy than public ones, this is an
offset by surpluses elsewhere. Gravely ill children are argument for more public finance of private provision
referred to the hospital from all over northeast Brazil, or for decentralization of public systems. The third les-
and there are three infant deaths per day among them. son is that even prices that are not based Ofl cost-effec-
reduce mortality, IMIP created a pediatric intensive tiveness criteria can guide decisions about what care to
care unit. The treatments provided, however, cost provide. It is more useful for government to set those
much more than INAMPS would pay. And mortality prices correctly than to try to make all the allocative
did not decline. Even without cost-effectiveness calcu- choices.
Lb

3.2). By estimating costs for "cost centers" and value to human life, as would be necessary if costs
relating them to outputs, the hospital discovered and gains were to be put in the same units.
that its pediatric intensive care unit would drain Only in the past decade have costs and effective-
resources from other departments, given the ness been systematically estimated for a wide
prices the government paid for various services. range of health care interventionsalthough the
The decision was made to limit the intensive care first such calculations had been made many years
unit to newborns; community-level health posts earlier. Only a small share of the thousands of
appeared more cost-effective for other cases. known medical procedures has been analyzed, but
the approximately fifty studied would be able to
Measuring the cost-effectiveness of health interventions deal with more than half the world's disease bur-
den. Just implementing the twenty most cost-
Given a common currency for measuring cost and effective interventions could eliminate more than
a unit for measuring health effects, different inter- 40 percent of the total burden and fully three-quar-
ventions can be compared by what it costs to ters of the health loss among children.
achieve one additional year of healthy life. Out- The cost and effectiveness estimates used in this
comes are measured in the same unit of disability- Report are based, as far as possible, on actual con-
adjusted life years (DALYs) used to estimate the ditions in developing countries. Some fixed costs
burden of disease. Nonhealth burdens, such as in- of operating a health system that cannot be attrib-
come lost because of disease, are not included in uted to particular interventions are not consid-
the measure. The ratio of cost and effect, or the ered, but the costs of intervention-specific capacity
unit cost of a DALY, is called the cost-effectiveness are taken into account. Costs are assessed at mar-
of the intervention; the lower that number, the ket prices. For inputs that cannot be traded inter-
greater the value for money offered by the inter- nationally (such as semiskilled labor), costs will be
vention. This approach avoids assigning a dollar lower in developing countries. For drugs, most
60


--- Page 75 ---
equipment, and high-level manpower, costs are either the public or the private sector costs lives.
likely to be equal across countries, leaving aside An expenditure of $100,000 on chemotherapy for
the effects of tariffs or other barriers. Indirect tuberculosis could directly save about 500 patients.
costs, such as patients' costs of travel to treatment It would also prevent them from infecting others,
or the income they forgo, can be substantial for for a total gain of about 35,000 DALYs. The same
some interventions and perhaps particularly for expenditure on management of diabetes would
women. Because these costs are difficult to deter- also benefit 500 patients but would save only 400
mine, they were largely ignored; more study is DALYs; each patient would gain less than one
needed of how these barriers affect the utilization healthy year from a year of treatment, and there
of health services. would be no benefit from reducing incidence. In-
For some common health service packages such sisting on value for money is not only fully con-
as immunizations, costs are computed on a joint sistent with compassion for the victims of disease,
basis rather than separately for each intervention it is the only way to avert needless suffering.
in the package. The estimates do not represent an The results of cost-effectiveness analysis confirm
unattainable ideal; they assume that medically cor- the value of the primary health care interventions
rect procedures are followed and that reasonable included in programs to reduce childhood malnu-
care is taken as to quality, but they also allow for trition and mortality, chiefly from infectious dis-
incomplete coverage or compliance. Whenever eases. Several hitherto neglected interventions are
possible, actual experience is used to guide esti- also very cost-effective: chemotherapy against tu-
mates of such things as how many patients will fail berculosis, integrated prenatal and delivery care,
to complete a course of treatment. Future gains mass programs to deworm children, provision of
from current interventions are discounted at 3 per- condoms along with information and education to
cent per year, which has little effect on the ranking combat AIDS, and measures against smoking,
of interventions the effects of which are felt such as education, consumer taxes on tobacco
quickly, although it does reduce measured gains products (an effective deterrent for adolescents
from interventions when the health effects are felt who are not yet addicted), and prohibition of
only in the long run. smoking in public places. Many of the most cost-
This Report found huge differences in both the effective health interventions are preventive in
cost and the effectiveness of various health inter- character. But not all preventive measures are cost-
ventions. Figure 3.2 presents both dollar costs and effective: spraying to control the mosquitoes that
gains in DALYs for each of forty-seven different carry dengue is an example of relatively poor value
interventions. Higher points represent interven- for money. At the same time, a small number of
tions that are more effective in improving health; neglected but cost-effective clinical (mostly cura-
points farther to the right represent lower-cost in- tive) interventions could eliminate a substantial
terventions. Some interventions cost more than fraction of the burden of disease in many
$10,000 per person benefited, while others cost countries.
less than $1. Some interventions add more than In general, most cost-effective interventions can
ten years of healthy life; for others the gain is be performed outside hospitals. By treating a small
equivalent to only a few hours or days of full number of severe cases of disease, however, hos-
health. Both axes are scaled in logarithms so that pitals can sometimes improve health at a lower
the diagonal lines show equal cost-effectiveness cost per DALY than lower-level facilitiespro-
ratios in dollars per DALY. These ratios vary vided that clinics or health posts treat most cases
widely, from as little as $1 to as much as $10,000. and refer to hospitals only those requiring more
Higher lines represent more cost-effective inter- sophisticated care.
ventions. Four specific interventions illustrate ex-
treme combinations of cost and health gain: vita- Complications in the use of cost-effectiveness
min A supplementation in areas where the risk of
blindness from vitamin deficiency is high (very Both the cost and the effectiveness of an interven-
low cost, high gain), chemotherapy for tuber- tion can be affected by the incidence and preva-
culosis (high cost, very high gain), environmental lence of the disease and the probability of dying
control of dengue (low cost, low gain), and treat- from it. Preventive interventions are less cost-
ment of childhood leukemia (very high cost, mod- effective for relatively rare diseases because more
erately high gain). people have to be reached to prevent one case. The
Because interventions can differ so much in cost- fatality rate matters because preventing or control-
effectiveness, making allocative decisions badly in ling a disease saves more lives if there is a high

61


--- Page 76 ---
The costs and effectiveness of health interventions vary greatly.

Figure 3.2 Benefits and costs of forty-seven health interventions

Increase in DALYs (log scale)
100
Chemotherapy for tuberculosis
.
10 Vitamin A
supplementation
. .

0.1 $1/DALY
Treatment of S
leukemia

0.01 Greater $10/DALY
effectiveness
Environmental
0.001 Lower control of dengue $100/DALY
cost
$10,000/DALY
0.000110,000 $1,000/DALY
1,000 100 10 10.10
Cost per intervention or per intervention-year (dollars, log scale)

Target:
Children under age 15
Adults age 15 or older a
Note: DALY, disablility-adjusted life year. Interventions are specific activities intended to reduce disease risks, treat illness,
or palliate the consequences of disease and disability; an intervention-year is an intervention repeated throughout the year
rather than provided only once.
a. Jncludes some interventions that benefit all age groups.
Source: Jamison and others forthcoming; Worlc Bank data.

probability of dying. Immunization in an environ- information is needed to judge which interven-
ment in which children are undernourished and tions should have priority. National or regional as-
many die from preventable diseases is more cost- sessments are also important for estimating the
effective than if children are otherwise healthy and expenditure levels required and the probable im-
face little risk of dying. (Box 3.3, on measles and pact on the national burden of disease.
tuberculosis, illustrates these issues.) Fortunately, If providing an intervention did not impose any
differences in cost-effectiveness between one in- fixed costs in infrastructure and program adminis-
tervention and another are often much larger than tration, then a low cost per DALY saved would
either the variation from one locale to another or suffice to justify the intervention. In practice, there
the uncertainty in the estimates. Where this is not may be substantial fixed costs to share over a num-
the case, as exemplified by malaria, detailed local ber of interventions, and administrative capacity

62


--- Page 77 ---
Box 3.3 Cost-effectiveness of interventions against measles and tuberculosis

The costs and effects of measles vaccination were esti- average cost of the lower-coverage strategy, but the
mated for a model urban area based on data from higher-coverage approach continues to be extremely
Lagos and Kinshasa. Data from Matlab, Bangladesh, cost-effective. Similar calculations were made for che-
were used to model measles in rural areas. In each motherapy for tuberculosis, for both a standard course
area, 36,400 cases of measles were assumed to occur in of treatment (twelve to eighteen months) and a short
the absence of vaccination, with 1,452 urban deaths course (six to eight months), each with and without
and 806 rural deaths. All the health damage from mea- hospitalization. Using data from Malawi, Mozam-
sles comes from deaths, each of which costs thirty bique, and Tanzania, the average incremental cost
DALYs. The simulations considered three different (marginal cost plus the average cost attributable to the
strategies: no vaccination, immunization at nine fixed costs of the tuberculosis control program but ex-
months (the earliest age at which the standard vaccine cluding other fixed costs of the health system) was esti-
is effective) with 60 percent coverage, and nine-month mated at about $80 to $110 per cure for ambulatory
vaccination plus efforts to increase coverage to 80 per- treatment, and $160 to $300 when hospitalization was
cent, which raises supervision costs by 10 percent. For required. Cost per death directly averted was in the
the last strategy, incremental as well as average costs range of $75 to $275, but cost per total death averted,
were calculated to highlight the effect of raising cover- taking account of the interruption of transmission, can
age. Costs were related to each of three effects: cases be as low as $20 and never exceeds $100. These very
averted, deaths averted, and DALYs gained. Box table low costs translate into costs per DALY saved of about
3.3 shows the results. $1 to $3, making chemotherapy for tuberculosis one of
Measles strikes later in childhood in rural areas, so the most cost-effective of all interventions. These costs
cases are easier to prevent. But because earlier cases (in do not vary with the annual rate of infection. The cost-
urban areas) cause more deaths, the cost per death effectiveness of BCG vaccine, by contrast, is extremely
averted or per DALY is higher. In both urban and rural sensitive to infection rates; the vaccine is cost-effective
areas, the marginal cost of raising coverage exceeds the only when the risk of infection is high.

Box table 3.3 Health costs and gains from measles immunization

Urban, by percentage vaccinated Rural, hr percentage vaccinated
Item 60 80 60 80
Cases prevented (thousands) 10.7 14.2 16.2 22.6
Total cost per case prevented (dollars) 17 18 11 12
Incremental cost (dollars) - 22 - 15
Deaths averted (thousands) 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.5
Total cost per death averted (dollars) 432 462 525 561
Incremental cost (dollars) 552 670
DALYs gained (thousands) 12.3 16.4 10.2 13.5
Total Cost per DALY (dollars) 15 16 18 19
Incremental cost (dollars) - 19 - 23
Source: Foster, McFarland, and John forthcoming.

may be limited. Spending on interventions that Since only relative ranking is possible, the at-
are very cost-effective but resolve very small dis- tractiveness of an intervention also varies accord-
ease burdens could waste resources by making it ing to what other health problems and treatments
difficult to deal with diseases that impose much are locally prevalent. Oral rehydration therapy is
larger burdens. Priority should go to those health an example: in environments in which child mor-
problems that cause a large disease burden and for tality is low, it is much less cost-effective than im-
which cost-effective interventions are available munization because it may have to be given re-
(Box 3.4). If a particular health problem causes the peatedly during a child's first few years, but as
loss of many healthy life years but there are no mortality rises it becomes more cost-effective. In
meansor only very costly meansfor dealing general, the cost-effectiveness ratio varies not only
with it, then it should be a priority not for health with local conditions but also with the degree to
care but for research on development of cost-effec- which an intervention penetrates or covers a
tive interventions. population. Cost-effectiveness is also influenced

63


--- Page 78 ---
r
Box 3.4 Priority health problems: high disease burdens and cost-effective interventions
It is easy to determine which health problems among ease burden in women ages 45-59 and for smaller
children under age 5 deserve priority. As Appendix shares in other age and sex groups. Among communi-
table B.6 shows, nine diseases each account for more cable diseases tuberculosis, AIDS, and respiratory in-
than 1 percent of the total disease burden in this age fections deserve priority, but they cause less than 10
group. These diseases range from acute respiratory in- percent of all ill health after age 45 and only 20.1 per-
fections (more than 17 percent in both boys and girls) cent in men ages 15-44.
to iodine deficiency (1.2 to 1.3 percent). Of these prob- Large disease burdens and cost-effective interven-
lems, which cause fully 80 percent of young children's tions coincide for only one group of adults, women
ill health, eight can be addressed by interventions cost- ages 15-44. Six of the ten main sources of ill health can
ing less than $100 per DALY saved. The only exception be prevented or treated for less than $100 per DALY.
is congenital problems, which are responsible for more These range from maternal health problems (18.0 per-
than 6 percent of the disease burden but for which no cent of the burden) to respiratory infections and ane-
cost-effective interventions are known. mia (2.5 percent of the burden each) and account in
The situation is much more complicated for adults total for 44 percent of ill health among women of repro-
(Appendix table B.7). For example, cerebrovascular ductive age. Two other problemsdepression and self-
disease is the leading cause of healthy life years lost in inflicted injuryeach cause at least 3 percent of the
both sexes after age 60 and in women ages 45-59, but disease burden, but dealing with them is much more
interventions to deal with it cost $1,000 or more per problematic.
DALY saved. Ischemic heart disease is the second or These calculations illustrate the chief problem a
third leading cause of ill health in both sexes after age health care system faces as the population ages: the
45, but the cost per DALY of dealing with it is $250 to marginal cost of a year of healthy life gained rises
$1,000. Among the ten principal noncommunicable sharply, leading to difficult choices between increased
causes of ill health in this age group, interventions spending and lower health gains. However, many
costing less than $100 per DALY saved exist only for health problems of the elderly that cannot be fully re- I
cataracts, anemia, and cancers of the respiratory sys- solved may be palliated at low cost. And much can be
tem (through reduction of smoking) and the cervix. done at earlier ages to improve the health of future
These problems account for only 7.9 percent of the dis- generations of old people.

by the presence of other interventions that might An important limitation on the use of cost-effec-
affect costs (through sharing of joint costs) or out- tiveness analysis of resource allocation in health is
comes. Sometimes combining two interventions, that a number of interventions with important
one preventive and one curative, is the appropri- health consequences also affect income or welfare
ate way to deal with a particular disease, as is the in other ways. Chemotherapy for tuberculosis has
case for tuberculosis and malaria. Some treatment no value beyond the DALY gain associated with
for malaria is necessary because preventive mea- curing tuberculosis, but investing in girls' school-
sures do not protect everyone; even if treatment is ing has both important consequences for health
more costly, both interventions should be applied. (as documented in Chapter 2) and for income and
In exceptional circumstances it may be worth status later in life. Similarly, family planning, in
paying high marginal costs to extend coverage of addition to its health benefits, permits family
an intervention to the entire population because choice about the number and spacing of children;
the disease can be eradicated permanently (as has improved water supply and sanitation create ame-
occurred with smallpox and may now be possible nity and time-saving benefits; increased food con-
with polio). The gains in such cases include not sumption allows higher levels of physical activity;
only the DALYs saved at the margin from the last and improved road safety reduces property dam-
people immunized but all the healthy years that age and saves lives. For some of these interven-
would otherwise be lost to the disease in the tions (for example, family planning and girls'
future. A similar argument holds if a low-cost schooling) the cost per DALY is sufficiently low to
intervention that has to be applied continually make them attractive on health grounds alone;
is replaced by one with large initial costs other benefits only strengthen the case. For other
but permanent effects, such as sanitation to reduce interventions the cost per DALY gained may be
the need for treating many fecally borne diseases. too high to justify investment on health grounds

64


--- Page 79 ---
alone, but consumer willingness to pay for non- has the most easily measured output. Coverage in
health benefits means that costs to the health sys- many regions remains incomplete. Immunization
tem can be low. Many water and sanitation invest- against measles and against diphtheria, pertussis,
ments are in this category. and tetanus has reached 90 percent or more in
Using cost-effectiveness to select health inter- Chile, China, Cuba, Korea, and Saudi Arabia, but
ventions for public financing does not necessarily it is still below 50 percent in some Asian and many
mean spending the most resources where the bur- Sub-Saharan African countries. Many of the other
den of disease is greatest. Instead, it means con- components of an adequate public health package
centrating on the interventions that offer the great- scarcely exist.
est possible gain in health per public dollar spent. As far as clinical services are concerned, the
The relevant comparison is usually not with a situ- principal government failing in most countries is
ation in which nothing is done but with the situa- the attempt to provide everything to everybody,
tion created by privately financed health interven- with no distinction between more and less essen-
tions. The most justified public measures will tial care and more or less needy patients. For some
therefore combine a strong rationale for public ac- health services provided by the public sector, the
tion with a cost-effective health intervention. Be- system of provision is so grossly inefficient that it
cause individuals differ in how they value the is unlikely to be cost-effective no matter what in-
present in relation to the future and in how they terventions the system tries to provide. Such inef-
judge the seriousness of different health condi- ficiencies have been criticized so clearly and for so
tions, a uniform ceiling on what the government long that it is evident they will only be overcome
pays to gain one DALY may leave some people by radical changes in the organization of health
with more publicly financed care than they would caresuch as a shift in the government's role from
choose and some with less. But of all possible uni- providing care to financing care and stimulating
form criteria by which to judge what interventions competition among providers. These changes will
to pay for, cost-effectiveness appears to yield the in turn require a clear distinction between essential
most efficient distribution of health resources. and discretionary spending and a new determina-
tion by governments to achieve value for money in
Data limitations health services. There is no other equitable way to
control government spending.
Cost-effectiveness analysis requires data on expen- Most governments also perform poorly in regu-
ditures for particular interventions and on out- lating markets for private services, including in-
comesinformation that health facilities and sys- surance. As recent research in Brazil has shown,
tems, particularly those in the public sector, the quality of medical care could be substantially
typically do not collect. Such information could improved at low cost if government discharged
promote substantial gains in efficiency, but it will this role better. The rapid growth and almost total
take considerable time and effort for most public lack of regulation of private insurance in such
systems in developing countries to learn how to countries as Brazil and Korea present another chal-
gather and use it. Budgets often disaggregate only lenge for which governments are ill-prepared.
by inputs, not by programs, and costs per consul-
tation or per bed-day mix many different interven- Allocation of spending to cost-effective services
tions. Outcomes are seldom quantified. For inter-
ventions the cost-effectiveness of which vary There are no calculations of how many years of
greatly with local conditions, there is no substitute healthy life are currently saved by health systems.
for information on both costs and results. Nonetheless, it is clear that many of them perform
Health policy and the performance of health much worse than they might. Many governments
systems spend too much on sophisticated hospital services
of low cost-effectiveness and too little on essential
All governments subscribe to the view that the public health and clinical services. The share of
state must ensure the provision of certain basic public expenditures for health absorbed by tertiary
public health services. But few achieve this goal and secondary care hospitals, for example, is as
even for immunization, which is probably the high as 70 to 75 percent in Jordan and Venezuela.
health intervention that has received the greatest Tertiary care hospitals alone may consume 30 to 50
government attention and donor support and that percent of the health budget. Only a quarter of
government spending, and often less, is devoted

65


--- Page 80 ---
Table 3.2 Actual and proposed allocation of public expenditure on health in developing countries, 1990
(dollars per capita)

Spending under the proposed package Estimated
actual
Low- Middle- Allspending, all
income income developing developing
Package component count ries count ri cs' countriescountries Contents
Public health 4 7 5 1 EPI Plus; school health
programs; tobacco and alcohol
control; health, nutrition, and
family planning information;
vector control; STD
prevention; monitoring and
surveillance
Essential clinical services 8 15 10 4-6 Tuberculosis treatment;
(minimum package) management of the sick child;
prenatal and delivery care;
family planning; STD
treatment; treatment of
infection and minor trauma;
assessment, advice, and pain
alleviation
Total, public health and 12 22 15 5-7
minimum essential clinical
services
Discretionary clinical services' 6 40 6 13-15 All other health services,
including low-cost-
effectiveness treatment of
cancer, cardiovascular disease,
other chronic conditions,
major trauma, and
neurological and psychiatric
disorders
Total 6 62 21 21
Note: Current spending on essential clinical services is estimated to be 20-30 percent of total public expenditure on health on the basis of estimates
in World Bank health sector reports. The numbers reported should be regarded as approximations.
Estimated for an income level of $350 per capita.
Estimated for an income level of $2,500 per capita.
Estimated residually. The negative number for low-income countries reflects total spending below the cost of the package.
Source: World Bank calculations; World Bank sector reports on Ghana (1989), India (1992), Indonesia (1991), Jamaica (1989), Jordan (1989), Mexico
(1989), Nigeria (1991), Pakistan (1992), Turkey (1990), and Venezuela (1992).

to cost-effective public health measures and essen- propriate package of cost-effective care would ad-
tial clinical care, delivered mainly in health centers dress. Even the best-designed care package could
and communities. In many countries the share of not prevent all the health damage from these dis-
public spending devoted to these basic services eases because of the low cost-effectiveness of some
has been falling in recent years. In Brazil 64 per- interventions and the increasing marginal costs of
cent of public spending on health in 1965 was for even the best ones. Still, because of the size of the
preventive and public health activities, but by the burden and the low cost per DALY of the interven-
mid-1980s the share had dropped to 15 percent, tions, it is reasonable to conclude that public ex-
and hospitals absorbed fully 70 percent of expendi- penditure on health should initially be concen-
ture. The resulting weakness of the primary care trated on those conditions. What this implies for
network leads patients to seek care in hospitals; Up the distribution of spending by type of input or
to 80 percent of the cases crowding hospital emer- level of facility is less clear, but it probably means
gency rooms could be treated as effectively, but that facilities above the district hospital level
more cheaply, at the primary level. should account for only a small share of the total,
In the world as a whole, almost half the existing primarily for dealing with referrals.
disease burden is from communicable diseases, Table 3.2 illustrates the degree of misallocation
nutritional disorders, and maternal and perinatal of health spending by comparing estimated actual
causes. It is primarily these problems that an ap- expenditure with what would be spent for a pack-
66


--- Page 81 ---
age of health services designed to address most cluding private spending, is about $14, about the
effectively the burden of disease in the developing same as the proposed package. This means that
world. This package consists of public health ser- either substantial private resources will have to be
vices that would cost just over $4 per capita in poor used or additional government resources will be
countries (with average income per capita of $350) needed; even if all public expenditure on discre-
and a minimum package of essential clinical ser- tionary services were eliminated, current govern-
vices that would cost about $8 per capita more. In ment spending on health would not meet the costs
middle-income countries (with average income per of the package.
capita of $2,500), the same package of public Since the minimum package would cost only
health measures and essential clinical services about $60 billion for all developing countries to-
would cost about 80 percent more, or $22 per per- gether, the task is to reallocate resources in mid-
son. This difference partly reflects different epi- dle-income countries and to find additional re-
demiological conditions, but input costs, particu- sources of about $10 billion in low-income
larly salaries, would also be higher in middle- countries. The $8 to $10 per capita needed in extra
income countries. Many countries will define the spending on public health measures and essential
essential clinical package much more broadly than clinical services is less than the $13 to $15 per cap-
the minimum discussed here. Even in relatively ita now spent, on average, on discretionary or
poor countries, targeting public finance of essen- nonessential clinical services. In fact, spending on
tial services to the poor would allow creation of a these less cost-effective services is now roughly
broader and more generous package. Such a pack- double the amount that countries spend on the
age can be built up by adding interventions in or- recommended package of public health measures
der of decreasing cost-effectiveness until the addi- and essential clinical care. The right combination
tional health gain is judged not to be worth the of reallocation and additional expenditure would
cost, given the country's resources. To ensure po- allow governments to achieve a large improve-
litical support and to deal with problems of market ment in overall health.
failure and equity, countries may choose to finance Table 3.3 indicates how large this gain could be.
the essential package universally from public, or Properly allocated, an expenditure of only $12 per
publicly mandated, sources. person in low-income countries (excluding China)
Governments in developing countries spend an would be enough to reduce the disease burden by
estimated $21 per capita on health, for a total of almost one-third. This is 226 million DALYs,
about $84 billion. It is estimated that only a little equivalent to 7.0 million infant deaths per year. In
more than $1 per person, or a total of $5 billion, middle-income countries the proposed package
goes for cost-effective public health measures. To could deal with only 15 percent of the disease bur-
buy the package described here, countries would den, despite the higher expenditure per person.
need almost to quintuple what they spend on pub- The total reduction in ill health in middle-income
lic health. About $4 to $6 per capita, or $17 billion countries would be about 45 million DALYs, the
to $25 billion total, goes for clinical services deliv- equivalent of 1.4 million infant deaths per year.
ered through lower-level facilities or classified as The smaller gain in these countries reflects the fact
primary health care. These services commonly in- that they have already eliminated much of the bur-
clude many of those in the essential clinical care den from easily controlled communicable diseases.
package, but they are usually not delivered to the A large part of the remaining burden is caused by
entire population. And this expenditure includes chronic disease and disability.
some less cost-effective services that should be re- It is assumed that the disease burden would de-
garded as discretionary. Paying for a minimum cline by the same share in China as in a middle-
package of essential clinical care would require ex- income country because China has already sub-
penditure of an additional $16 billion to $24 billion, stantially reduced the burden from the diseases
doubling the current expenditure level. If total addressed by the package. About 30 million
spending did not change, this would imply a re- DALYs could be gained, the equivalent of 930,000
duction by about half in what is now spent on infant deaths prevented. The cost per capita would
discretionary services. be the same as in low-income countries.
For some countries, paying for the proposed Full coverage with the minimum package would
package of services poses a severe challenge. In cost an estimated $22 billion in low-income coun-
fact, in the poorest countries total current public tries, $14 billion in China, and $26 billion in
spending of $6 per person is about $6 short of the middle-income countries. The total cost would be
cost of the package. Total per capita spending, in- about $62 billion, or $15 per person in the develop-

67


--- Page 82 ---
Table 3.3 Total cost and potential health gains of a package of public health
and essential clinical services, 1990

Country group and package component Cost per ca pit a Reduction in disease burden
(dollars) Total cost (billionsof dollars)Percent Millions of DALYs
Low-income countrjes 12 22 32 226
Public health 4 8 8 57
Essential clinical services 8 14 24 170
Chinab 12 14 15 30
Public health 4 5 4 8
Essential clinical services 8 9 11 22
Middle-income countrjes 22 26 15 45
Public health 7 8 4 12
Essential clinical services 15 18 11 33
All developing countries 15 62 25 301
Public health 5 21 6 77
Essential clinical services 10 41 19 225
Estimated from data for Bangladesh, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Sub-Saharan Africa.
burden is assumed to be that of a middle-income country.China is shown separately because its cost per capita is assumed to be that of a low-income country but its percentage reduction in disease

crescent except for Egypt and Pakistan.Estimated from data for Latin America and the Caribbean, Other Asia and islands except for Indonesia and Bangladesh, and the Middle Eastern

Source: World Bank calculations.

ing world as a whole. This figure includes what covered by a combination of greater public spend-
countries are already spending on the services in ing, increased donor contributions, and more pri-
the package, estimated at $20 billion to $30 billion. vate expenditure by those able to pay. Shifting
The incremental cost would therefore be only $30 some part of the cost to higher-income con-
billion to $40 billion a year. sumersfor example, through private or social in-
The gain in health would be about 300 million surancewould allow for an expansion of the
DALYs, which is equivalent to 9.3 million infant package or a reduced burden of public
deaths. Universal application of the package expenditure.
would therefore yield about the same health gain There are several reasons why developingcoun-
as eliminating nearly all the infant deaths in the tries fail to allocate sufficient resources to cost-
world today. These gains could be achieved for an effective health interventions. Health providers
average cost of about $50 per DALY for the public often lack incentives to provide cost-effective ser-
health measures and about $100 per DALY for the vices. Doctors' pay, promotion, and professional
minimum package of essential clinical services. recognition are enhanced by specialization and by
The cost per DALY of the interventions in the the use of expensive new medical technologynot
package ranges from less than $5 to more than by serving as public health doctors or district
$200; average costs also reflect those public health medical officers in poor rural areas. Badly de-
measures that do not improve health directly but signed government salary schedules and price sys-
that are essential to the functioning of a health tems may exacerbate this trend. In China hospitals
system. currently have a strong incentive to use new diag-
In both low-income and middle-income coun- nostic and therapeutic technologies, for which full
tries the marginal cost per DALY would be less costs can be charged, instead of older and less ex-
than the average cost because all the fixed costs of pensive technologies for which government-set
infrastructure are included in these estimates and prices are far below actual costs.
there would be spare capacity for producing small Consumer demand for cost-effective services is
additional amounts of most services. Because of often weak. This may reflect lack of information.
joint costs, it is difficult to separate the cost per In rural Africa, for example, goiter and impaired
DALY for every intervention in the package. mental abilities from iodine deficiency have in
In middle-income countries the package could many places become accepted as the normal state
be entirely financed by reallocating current public of affairs. Low demand may also reflect deficien-
spending. In poor countries there would be a cies in supply. Most cost-effective interventions
shortfall of about $10 billion a year, which could be can be delivered at primary care sites, but in poor

68


--- Page 83 ---
countries such as Burkina Faso and Mali, more health care center or doctor's office. In Indonesia
than half of the population lives more than 10 kilo- in 1991, for example, rural households in the top
meters from the nearest primary care center. income decile were three times more likely to live
At a more fundamental level, the distribution of in a village with a health center than those in the
political power explains much of the misallocation bottom decile.
of government resources for health. The urban Partly because of difficulties in access, the poor
population is better organized than rural groups in developing countries generally consume fewer
and more vocal in demanding health facilities and health services. Household surveys from Sub-
services. Similarly, middle-class workers in wage Saharan Africa and Latin America demonstrate
employment, who frequently belong to powerful clearly that among people who report themselves
trade unions, are more effective than self-em- to be sick, those in urban areas seek and obtain
ployed farmers and workers in the informal sector medical care more often than those in rural areas,
in lobbying for government-subsidized health and the wealthy contact a care provider more often
benefits. Health professionals are also often better than do the poor. The differences can be large: in
organized than the population they serve, and in Côte d'Ivoire in the mid-1980s, for example, an
promoting their own interests they may make the urban household was nearly twice as likely to seek
health system less efficient. Despite these prob- care as a rural household (60 versus 36 percent),
lems, many countries have succeeded in dramati- and within the rural population a family in the top
cally improving the health of their people. This income quintile was almost twice as likely to seek
success can be accelerated, as newly available in- care as a family in the bottom quintile (44 versus 23
formation makes it clear how costly misallocation percent).
is and how much health can be gained for rela- A study of Peru showed similar inequalities
tively modest levels of spending. among geographic regions and educational
groups. There was little variation in self-declared
Equity in health status, utilization, and finance illness, but the likelihood of obtaining medical care
Data on health status, physical access to health when sick was nearly three times higher in some
parts of the country than in others. Regional dif-
services, consumption of health care, the distribu- ferences in immunization rates were highest for
tion of the financial burden of health care spend- uneducated mothers, whose children were only
ing, and public expenditures for health all tell the one-third as likely to be fully immunized as the
same story of severe inequities in developing children of women with secondary schooling. The
countries. In Bangladesh, for example, the infant 36 percent of all the self-declared sick who lived in
mortality rate for the urban poor (13.4 percent) is the capital city accounted for 53 percent of all Min-
nearly twice the urban average (6.8 percent) and istry of Health ambulatory consultations, 41 per-
about 50 percent higher than the average rate for cent of hospital admissions, and 47 percent of all
the entire country (10 percent). In China, despite public expenditure attributable to care for individ-
remarkable overall progress in health (infant mor- ual patients. At the other extreme was Piura, a
tality fell from 20 percent in 1950 to 4.6 percent in poor mountainous region with 10 percent of the
1982), there is considerable geographic variation, sick but only 4 percent of public spending and of
which is strongly related to income. Poor regions consultations.
such as Yunnan, Xinjiang, and Tibet have infant Inequity in public spending for health both ac-
mortality rates of more than 7 percent, compared counts for and reflects marked inequalities in ac-
with less than 2 percent in more affluent Beijing, cess to and utilization of care. In Indonesia, for
Guangdong, Shanghai, and Tianjin. To take an- example, despite significant investments in lower-
other example, in Kenya the probability of a level health facilities in the 1980s, only 12 percent
child's dying before age 2 varied among ethnic of public spending for health in 1990 went for ser-
groups from 7.4 to 19.7 percent, and in Cameroon vices consumed by the bottom 20 percent of
these probabilities ranged from 11.6 to 20.5 households, while the top 20 percent obtained 29
percent. percent of the government subsidy. This bias in
The poor also have considerably worse access to favor of the wealthy was mainly a result of the
health care. A number of surveys show that low- distribution of government spending for hospital
income households, especially in rural areas, have inpatient and ambulatory care, services that were
to travel considerably farther or longer to reach the used more frequently by the rich. Much more un-
first level of referral services, usually a primary equal situations can be found in many countries

69


--- Page 84 ---
that concentrate government spendingeven more Household surveys systematically show that
on high-level facilities. people choose whether to seek care and which
The few countries in which public spending on provider to consult on the basis of many factors
health is biased toward the poor show that govern- hours of service, travel time or cost, waiting time,
ment policies can help reduce inequities in access availability of doctors or of drugs, and how pa-
and health status. In Malaysia the government has tients are personally treated. The time required to
followed a pro-poor policy since the 1970s, with get care can be valued according to local wages
the lowest-income groups receiving a larger share and treated as a cost of service together with
of public subsidies for health than the middle class money payments. On this basis, free public medi-
and the wealthy. Similarly, in Costa Rica govern- cal care often is more costly than unsubsidized pri-
the poor, despite economic shocks and a majorment spending for health has continued to favorvate care for which patients do not have to travel
adjustment program in the 1980s that entailed cuts so far or wait so long. It is not surprising that,
in public expenditure. In 1988 about 30 percent of under these circumstances, even poor people ex-
government spending for health went to the poor- press their dissatisfaction with public services by
est 20 percent of households and just over 10 per- paying for a great deal of private outpatient care.
cent of spending to the richest 20 percent. The In both El Salvador and the Dominican Republic
poverty-oriented pattern of public spending for residents of the poorest quintile of the capital city
health in Costa Rica can be explained largely by obtain more than half their ambulatory care from
the high degree of coverage by the social security private physicians. Although the price of private
health system (the entire population is covered in care to the poorest quintile is, on average, half that
principle, even though only 63 percent of the for patients in the richest quintile, it is still fifteen
working population contributes) and the relatively times higher than Ministry of Health fees. Differ-
equal access to and quality of care enjoyed by all ences in waiting timeone hour for private pa-
Costa Ricans. It also helps that the wealthy get tients as against two and a half hours at Ministry
most of their outpatient care from the private of Health facilitiesaccount for much of this effect.
sector. Sensitivity to price and travel time is also found
in rural Peru and Côte d'Ivoire. But private hospi-
Consumer satisfaction with health care tal care is still much too expensive for the poor;
How satisfied people are with their own health even those who use private doctors go to public
and their health care can be only partly explained hospitals. The excessive use of hospital care in re-
by objective criteria; subjective expectations mat- lation to ambulatory services often seen in public
ter. People can also be pleased with their own health systems partly reflects dissatisfaction with
health care and dissatisfied with their country's the high cost in time and the perceived poor qual-
health system as a whole. A comparison of ten ity of ambulatory care. In the absence of incentives
OECD countries with different health systems to improve lower-level facilities and service, this
found that in eight countries public satisfaction overuse reinforces the tendency to concentrate re-
was related to the level of spending. Canada, with sources on hospitals, urban areas, and less cost-
the second-highest expenditure, had the highest effective interventions.
satisfaction rating, and people were generally bet- The importance of public satisfaction with a
ter satisfied with the costlier health systems of health care system raises two issues for the pack-
France, Germany, and the Netherlands than with age of publicly financed services proposed here.
the lower-spending systems in Australia, Italy, Ja- First, it suggests that quality can be maintained
pan, and the United Kingdom. Both very high ex- only if coverage is broad enough. Services de-
penditure and great dissatisfaction were found in signed only for the poor will almost inevitably be
the United States. The study also showed that low in quality and will not receive the politicalsup-
having a unified national health system did not port necessary for adequate provision. This is a
guarantee a high level of satisfaction. In most difficult political issue because it may be hard to
countries 30 to 50 percent of those polled sup- maintain equity and control costs if coverage is
ported "fundamental changes" in the health sys- universal. The proper balance between more care
tem. In Italy and the United States many people for fewer people and the same amount of care for
thought that such changes would not suffice and more people depends on ensuring that the poor
that the health system should be "completely have access to the same quality of care as everyone
rebuilt." else and on limiting public finance to cost-effective
services for which there is a sound rationale. Sec-

70


--- Page 85 ---
ond, reform of public provision alone, important more cost-effective care, but they also cannot
as it may be, may have much less effect on health provide equitably what care they do offer be-
outcomes, costs, and satisfaction than reforms that cause facilities will inevitably be geographically
also try to stimulate competition and improve peo- concentrated.
ple's access to a variety of providers. One of the principal responsibilities of govern-
ment is to match the available instruments of poi-
Matching means and ends icythe levers the public sector actually controls
to the objectives. Much of governments' failure to
The objectives of a health system are to improve achieve better health outcomes derives not from
outcomes, control costs, increase equity, and sat- the wrong choice of objectives but from the wrong
isfy users. Policy instruments, however, do not choice of instrumentsin particular, from too
correspond to individual objectives. What govern- much reliance on direct provision of care and cen-
ments actually do is build facilities, buy equipment tral control of health facilities and too little use of
and supplies, hire and train people, set fees or the financial, informational, and regulatory instru-
other service conditions, regulate providers and ments at the disposal of the government. These
insurers, disseminate information, determine instruments are particularly important for improv-
overall policy, and maintain surveillance of disease ing performance in the private market. When gov-
conditions or other variables. Misallocation and in- ernments pay for health care in addition to regulat-
equity are caused by mistakes in deciding what ing it, they have a further responsibility to provide
facilities to build, where to locate them, how to value for money by ensuring that public resources
staff them, and what services to provide. If gov- go first to cost-effective public health and essential
ernments spend too much on tertiary care, for ex- clinical services so as to buy the largest health gain
ample, not only can they not adequately finance possible.

71


--- Page 86 ---
Public health

Health services interact with households in two ated, in collaboration with UNICEF, a global effort
grams strike against health problems of entirefundamentally different ways. Public health pro-to prevent a range of childhood diseases byimmu-
populations or population subgroups. Their objec- nization. The EPI now reaches about 80 percent of
tive is to prevent disease or injury and to provide children in developing countries and avertsan es-
information on self-cure and on the importance of timated 3.2 million deaths a year at a cost of $1.4
seeking care. Clinical services respond to demand billion a year.
from individuals. They generally seek to cure or to Population-based health services suchas the EPI
ease the pain of those already sick. This chapter rely on personnel with limited training to provide
discusses public health; Chapter 5 turns to clinical drugs, vaccines, or specific health services directly
services. to specific populationsin schools, at worksites,
Public health programs work in threeways: they or in households. Government finance for such
deliver specific health services to populations (for ex- programs is justified because the objective is usu-
ample, immunizations), they promote healthy be- ally to provide services to all in a community, be-
havior, and they promote healthy environments. cause the services create externalities or indirect
Governments play a leading role, and provision of benefits, and because the diseases they typically
information through public education is a central combat are particular problems for the poor. Three
feature of most programs, especially those de- types of interventions are immunization, mass
signed to change behavior. But difficult choices treatment for worms and other infections, and
have to be made about the best use of public screening and referral. Information, education,
money. The Expanded Programme on Immuniza- and communication are critical to many such pro-
tion (EPI), described below, is highly cost-effec- grams, both to attract participation and to achieve
tive, at about $25 per DALY gained, but not all durable change in behavior.
programs offer such good value for money. This Immunization
chapter examines six particularly cost-effective
public health services in the realms of population- Vaccines to prevent tuberculosis, measles, diph-
based services (including immunization), nutri- theria, pertussis, tetanus, and polio have revolu-
tion, fertility, tobacco and other drugs, the house- tionized preventive medicine over the past two
hold and external environment (including control decades. Costs are less than $10 per DALY gained
of insect vectors of disease), and AIDS. Public for measles immunization and less than $25 for a
health packages in developing countriesshould in- combination of polio plus DPT (diphtheria, per-
clude components in mostor all of these six areas. tussis, and tetanus). These vaccines, togetherwith
Population-based health services BCG immunization against tuberculosis and lep-
rosy and immunization of pregnant women
In 1979 the World Health Organization declared against tetanus, form the EPI.
that smallpox had been eradicated. It then initi- As a result of the EPI, the proportion ofchildren
immunized rose from less than 5 percent in 1977to

72


--- Page 87 ---
20 to 30 percent by 1983. By 1990 coverage with paigns continue to be justified. In areas with better
polio, DPT, and measles vaccines had reached ap- infrastructure, routine services make more sense.
proximately 80 percent of all children, and about An ambitious current goal, established in 1988
35 percent of pregnant women were receiving tet- by WHO's governing body, the World Health As-
anus toxoid. The lowest vaccine coverage is re- sembly, is to eradicate polio by 2000. Current
ported in Sub-Saharan Africa. trends suggest that even if eradication is not
Had vaccination coverage remained at the low achieved on that schedule, it will be soon there-
levels of the 1970s, as many as 120 million DALYs a after. And substantial success has already been
year (the equivalent of 23 percent of the global achieved: there has been no naturally occurring
burden of disease among children under age 5 in case of polio in the Western Hemisphere since Au-
1990) would be lost to diseases preventable by the gust 1991.
EPI. At current levels of vaccination coverage, Two extensions to the EPI appear to be justified.
these diseases cause a loss of 55 million DALYs, or First, coverage should be extended, probably to 95
10 percent of the disease burden among children percent of all children born. The costs of expand-
under age 5 (Table 4.1). ing coverage are relatively high, but so are the
The cost of fully immunizing a child in low- gains. Those not covered at present often lack any
income countries is about $15, with a range of $6 to health services and are disproportionately vulner-
more than $20, depending on the prices of labor able to the diseases. Second, it makes sense to
and other local inputs. Reducing the number of include additional items in the package: hepatitis B
contacts needed to immunize each child fully and yellow fever vaccines for selected countries
could cut costs dramatically, by as much as 70 per- and vitamin A and iodine supplements in regions
cent if only one contact instead of the current five where deficiency of these micronutrients is highly
were needed. This prospect depends on the suc- prevalent. If micronutrients are not delivered
cess of ongoing research efforts. Technical im- through the EPI, some other vehicle must be
provements in the cold chain (by which vaccines found for reaching very young children. Adding
are kept refrigerated until use), good administra- these two vaccines and two micronutrients to the
tion, widespread deployment of delivery teams, EPI (EPI Plus) would improve health substantially,
and effective social mobilization efforts can also particularly in the poorest households, for a mod-
contribute to dramatic cost reductions. In the est increase of about 15 percent in the cost of
Gambia the cost of immunizations fell from $19 in reaching each child with complete services (vac-
1982 to $6 in 1988. Costs also depend on the immu- cine and micronutrients). Table 4.2 summarizes
nization strategy: campaigns achieve high initial the estimated costs and health benefits of the EPI
coverage, but routine services are more cost-effec- Plus cluster in two different settings. Total annual
tive. In Ecuador campaigns cost $66 per DALY costs range between $2.2 billion and $2.4 billion for
gained compared with $30 for routine services. Be- EPI Plus, or less than 2 percent of the public health
cause many countries lack the infrastructure to de- expenditure of developing countries. Expanding
liver vaccines routinely in remote rural areas, cam- coverage from 80 to 95 percent would probably

Table 4.1 Burden of childhood diseases preventable by the Expanded Programme on Immunization(EPI) by demographic region, 1990

Share of the Burden per 1,000
Burden (millions total burden in children children under age 5
Region of DALYS per year) under age 5 (percent) (DALYs)
Sub-Saharan Africa 23 15 242
India 16 12 137
China I 3 8
Other Asia and islands 7 10 81
Latin America and the Caribbean .1 3 18
Middle Eastern crescent 7 10 86
Formerly socialist economies of Europe * I
Established market economies * I
World 55 10 87
* Less than 1.
Note: The EPI includes immunizations for pertussis, polio, diphtheria, measles, tetanus, and tuberculosis. These estimates exclude the burden
from tuberculosis because most of it falls on adults.
Source: Calculated from Murray and Lopez, background paper.

73


--- Page 88 ---
Table 4.2 Costs and health benefits of the EPI Plus cluster in two developing country settings, 1990

Middle-income countries
Costs and benefits Low-income countries(high mortality and fertility)(low mortality and
medium fertility)
Cost per capita (dollars) 0.5 0.8
Cost per fully immunized child (dollars) 14.6 28.6
Cost per DALY gained (dollars) 12-17 25-30
Cost per DALY gained as a percentage of
income per capita 0.14 0.03
Potential health gains as a percentage
of the global burden of disease 6.0 1.0
Note: Figures are based on 95 percent coverage.
a. Income per capita in 1990 was assumed to be $350 for low-income countries and $2,500 for middle-income Countries.
Source: World Bank data and authors' calculations.

increase annual costs by between $500 million and tion can be reduced by environmental improve-
$750 million. In low-income countries the increase ments, especially sanitation, but where this is im-
in coverage would reduce by about 6 percent the practical or unaffordable, it is cost-effective to
global disease burden. repeat the therapy at regular intervals.
The benefits of individual treatment can be sig-
Mass treatment for parasitic worm infection nificantly enhanced by community-wide treatment
The most common intestinal wormsround- which, by lowering the overall levels of contam-
worms, hookworms, and whipwormseach infect ination of the environment with infective stages of
between 170 million and 400 million school-age the worms, slows the rate of reinfection. Treat-
ment programs targeted at the most heavily infec-
children annually. Schistosomiasis infection, also ted group (school-age children) reduce infection
caused by parasitic worms, affects almost 100 mil- immediately both among those treated and in the
lion school-age children annually. The immediate rest of the population. Treatment through schools
effects of infectionincluding failure to thrive, also allows delivery at relatively low cost: a pro-
anemia, and impaired cognitioncan now be rap- gram in Montserrat was estimated to cost less than
idly reversed by low-cost, single-dose oral ther- $1.50 per person for a cycle of eight treatments. A
apy. Studies of single-course treatment of school- program managed by a nongovernmental organi-
children with hookworm or schistosomiasis in zation in Jakarta initially cost $0.74 per capita per
Kenya, with worm-induced disease in India, and year, but after expansion to almost 1,000 schools
with trichuriasis in the West Indies showed re- the costs fell to $0.26. Such programs are ex-
markable spurts in growth and development in all tremely cost-effective, at $15 to $30 per DALY
the populations studied, including the large per- gained. In light of this cost-effectiveness and the
centages of children with asymptomatic infections. burden of disease addressed, the Rockefeller
And treatment also appears to have improved cog- Foundation and the UNDP are initiating a major
nitive development. program to document and explore the potential of
Curing worm infections is simple with inexpen- school-based health interventions that focus on
sive modern drugs such as albendazole and prazi- deworming and provision of micronutrient
quantel because it is not necessary to determine supplements.
which species are present. Furthermore, the high
level of safety of these drugs has led WHO to de- Mass screening and referral
velop protocols for their use on a mass basis
(where a high prevalence of infection exists) and Mass screening for disease control involves the ex-
by providers who are not medically traineda amination of asymptomatic individuals to identify
combination that makes for high cost-effective- and treat those affected by disease. Although this
ness. Treatment usually cures the current infec- method has been used to control some infectious
tion, but in endemic areas children will inevitably diseases, such as tuberculosis, it is mostly used
become reinfected. A return to pretreatment levels for noncommunicable diseases. Mass screening
of infection typically takes about twelve months makes sense for highly prevalent diseases that can
for roundworm and whipworm and twenty-four be cured by early treatment, especially when la-
months or more for hookworm. Rates of reinfec- tency periods span many years. An example is cer-

74


--- Page 89 ---
vical cancer, which is the leading cause of death of adding energy or protein to an initially poor
from cancer among women in developing coun- diet, the effect of deficiencies in either or both
tries, accounting for 150,000 deaths each year. components is combined under the term "protein-
Screening with Papanicolaou (Pap) smears is com- energy malnutrition." Foods rich in protein, such
mon in industrial countries, but attempts to repli- as soybeans and animal products, tend to be rela-
cate those efforts in developing countries have tively costly per unit of energy, and low-cost
rarely been successful. Such programs could, sources of energy such as cassava tend to be ex-
however, be made cost-effective by the use of a pensive per unit of protein. Because food takes up
simplified design that targets women over 35, much of a poor household's budget, choosing the
screens only every five to ten years, and uses inex- protein-energy balance that is right for health can
pensive outpatient treatment (such as freezing ab- be difficult.
normal cells) for severe precancerous conditions. Protein-energy malnutrition raises the risk of
When backed up with good follow-up services, death and may reduce physical and mental capac-
such interventions are cost-effective, at $150 to ity. Worldwide, about 780 million people are esti-
$200 per DALY gained. mated to be energy deficient according to WHO
standards. It is not known how many of them are
Diet and nutrition also protein deficient, or how many people who
get enough energy may still suffer from shortage
Eating well is necessary for good health. Either of protein. Exploratory studies of the determinants
directly or in association with infectious diseases, of human growth suggest that at the margin, the
inadequate diets account for a large share of the importance of additional protein may be greater
world's disease burden, including as much as a than is recognized. Malnutrition is not syn-
quarter of that among children. Much of this suf- onymous with hunger because people who have
fering stems from poverty-related underconsump- become accustomed to a deficient diet may not
tion of protein and energy, but equally important consider themselves hungry. If malnutrition is
are deficiencies of key micronutrientsiodine, widespread in the community, underweight and
vitamin A, and ironfrom which children and lethargic children look normal to parents who do
women suffer disproportionately. Increasing the not know how healthy children behave.Iron deficiency is the most common micro-
incomes of the poor is the most effective means of
reducing protein-energy malnutrition, but govern- nutrient disorder. It reduces physical productivity
ments can play an effective direct role through nu- and children's capacity to learn in school. By re-
trition education, measures to increase consump- ducing appetite, it may diminish children's intake
tion of micronutrients, and reduction in diarrheal and growth. Women suffer especially because
and parasitic infections among children. Public ac- menstruation and childbearing raise their need for
tion is also essential for preventing crop failures iron, and anemia, a shortage of iron in the blood,
from leading to famines. increases the risk of death from hemorrhage in
childbirth. The problem is worst in India, where 88
Malnutrition and ill health percent of pregnant women are anemic. Almost 60
percent of women are anemic in other parts of
Low height for a given age, or stunting, is the most Asia, but the proportion does not exceed 40 per-
prevalent symptom of protein-energy malnutri- cent in China, Africa, or Latin America. Anemia
tion; approximately 40 percent of all two-year-olds affects 15 percent of pregnant women in the estab-
in developing countries are short for their age (see lished market economies.
Appendix table A.6). The prevalence of stunting Iodine deficiency causes mental retardation, de-
may be as high as 65 percent in India; it is more layed motor development, and stunting, as well as
than 50 percent in Asia other than India and China neuromuscular, speech, and hearing disorders. It
and about 40 percent in China and Sub-Sahran is the leading preventable cause of intellectual im-
Africa. Stunted children are often also under- pairment in the world. Cretinism from iodine defi-
weight or have low weight for their age. Wasting ciency affects about 5.7 million people, and lack of
(low weight for a given height) is less prevalent- iodine causes another 20 million to be mentally
11 percent or less worldwide except in India, retarded.
where it reaches 27 percent. Vitamin A deficiency causes varying degrees of
Diets must contain both energy and protein. Be- vision loss and is the primary cause of acquired
cause little is known about the relative importance blindness in children. It also increases the severity

75


--- Page 90 ---
Table 4.3 Direct and indirect contributions of malnutrition to the global burden of disease, 1990
(millions of DALYs, except as specified)

Sub-Saha ran Latin America Middle Formerly Established
Type of malnutrition Africa India China Other Asia and the Eastern socialist market
and islands Caribbean crescent economies economies World
Direct effects
Protein-energy
malnutrition 2.2 5.6 1.7 0.9 1.0 1.0 0.2 0.2 12.7
Vitamin A deficiency 2.2 4.1 1.0 2.5 1.4 0.5 0.0 0.0 11.8
Iodine deficiency 1.7 1.4 1.0 1.3 0.5 1.4 0.0 0.0 7.2
Anemia 1.0 4.5 2.7 2.3 1.0 1.5 0.4 0.6 14.0
Total direct 7.0 15.5 6.3 7.0 3.9 4.5 0.6 0.9 45.7
Total DALYs per 1,000
population 13.8 18.3 5.6 10.3 8.9 8.9 1.7 1.1 8.7

Indirect effects (minimum
estimate)
Mortality from other
diseases attributed
to mild or moderate
underweight' 23.6 14.9 3.3 8.0 2.4 8.0 0.0 0.0 60.4
Mortality from other
diseases attributed
to vitamin A
deficiencyb 13.4 14.0 1.0 7.0 1.8 2.0 0.0 0.0 39.1
Based on the global burden of disease (GBD) attributable to deaths from tuberculosis, measles, pertussis, malaria, and diarrheal and respira-
tory diseases in children under age 5; in developing countries 25 percent of those deaths are attributed to mild or moderate underweight.Based on estimated deaths attributable to vitamin A deficiency in the age groups 6-Il months and 1-4years. These account for, respectively, 10
and 30 percent of all such deaths in high-risk countries and for 3 and 10 percent of all such deaths in other countries. Thirty lost DALY5 are
attributed to each child death; losses are redistributed to the regional classification used in this Report.
Source: For GBD calculations, Appendix B; for estimate of mortality from underweight, Pelletier 1991; for estimate of mortality from vitaminA
deficiency, Humphrey, West, and Sommer 1992.

Box 4.1 Women's nutrition 1
Women suffer more than men from iron deficiency normalities. A significant proportion of pregnancies
anemia, from stunting caused by protein-energy mal- end in poor maternal or infant health as a direct conse-
nutrition, and from iodine deficiency. The largest gap quence of maternal malnutrition.
is for iron deficiency anemia, which affects 458 million Iodine and vitamin A deficiencies tend to be lo-
adult women but 238 million men. About 450 million calized rather than widely distributed and could be vir-
women are stunted because of protein-energy malnu- tually eliminated through targeted, sporadic interven-
trition, compared with 400 million men. Iodine defi- tions, given a reasonable health infrastructure and a
ciency also affects substantial numbers of women, high level of political will. Anemia and protein-energy
probably more than for men. Corneal lesions and malnutrition, by contrast, affect much larger numbers
blindness caused by vitamin A deficiency afflict both of women and require more continuous intervention.
sexes equally, but deficiency as such is twice as com- Distribution of a regular supply of ferrous sulfate tab-
mon for girls as for boys. Women's nutritional prob- lets can prevent or cure anemia among pregnant and
lems are worst in South Asia, where prevalences of lactating women. Such efforts should include all
anemia, protein-energy malnutrition, and vitamin A women of reproductive age, certainly where the preva-
deficiency are the highest in the world and where, as a lence of anemia among women in general exceeds 50
result of widespread discrimination, girls and women percent. To reduce protein-energy malnutrition, much
suffer disproportionately. must be done outside the health sector toward making
Small pelvic size among stunted women increases more food available to households, increasing employ-
the risk of maternal and infant mortality, as does ma- ment opportunities for women, decreasing the time
ternal anemia. Iodine-deficient mothers give birth to and energy costs of women's home production, and
more infants with cretinism and other congenital ab- reducing discrimination against women and girls.

76


--- Page 91 ---
of and mortality from a variety of infections, espe- Childhood mortality drops sharply as ,iutritional
cially measles and diarrhea. WHO calculates that status improves.
13.8 million children have some degree of eye
damage because of vitamin A deficiency; of these,
250,000 to 500,000 go blind every year, and two- Figure 4.1 Child mortality (in specific age
thirds of the blinded children die. Both vitamin A ranges) and weight-for-age in Bangladesh,
and iodine deficiency are particularly common in India, Papua New Guinea, and Tanzania
Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa.
These four diseases of malnutrition caused a di-
rect loss of almost 46 million DALYs in 1990, or 3.4
percent of the global burden of disease (Table 4.3).
(The estimates do not include the health damage
from deficiencies of other micronutrients. Calcium
deficiency may be the most important of these; it 4,
causes bone deformities and slows skeletal growth 500
in children, and it may contribute to osteoporosis
in the elderly.) The estimated burden is slightly 269
larger for females than males because anemia af-
fects mostly women ages 15-44 (Box 4.1); anemia 119
accounts for 1.3 percent of the total female disease ,J
burden but for 24 percent among women in the
reproductive ages. Children under 5 are the princi- 47
pal victims of vitamin A deficiency, iodine defi-
ciency, and protein-energy malnutrition. The nu- o0 18
tritional disease burden for young children is 32
million DALYs, or 6 percent of their total burden of
illness. 6.7
The total impact of malnutrition on health is
much larger, however, because mild or moderate 2.5
protein-energy malnutrition and micronutrient de- 55 65 75 85
ficiencies (as well as overcorisumption of energy, Weight-for-age
fat, salt, and sugar) are risk factors for illness and (percentage of NCHS reference median)
death. Studies in Asia and Africa consistently - Tanzania, 6-30 months
show that mild to moderate stunting or under- - Papua New Guinea, 6-30 months
weight in children raises the risk of death (Figure
4.1), contributing to 25 to 50 percent of childhood Matlab, Bangladesh, 12-59 months
mortality. The greatest risk occurs for children in Punjab, India, 12-36 months
their second year, after they are weaned. Malnour-
ished children die principally from measles, diar- Note: NCHS, (U.S.) National Center for Health Statistics.
rheal and respiratory disease, tuberculosis, per- The vertical axis shows the child mortality rate, CMR, in
tussis, and malaria. Child deaths from these log-odds ratio form, log[CMR/(1000 - CMR)l. Thus, for a
diseases cost 231 million DALYs, making the total child in Punjab weighing 60 percent of the reference
burden attributable to malnutrition at least one- median, the probability of dying between 12 and 36months is 18 per 1,000.
fourth that amount, or 60 million DALYs. Source: Pelletier 1991.
Vitamin A deficiency, too, raises the risk of
death from other causes. Of the 8 million deaths of
children with vitamin A deficiency that occur ech
year, between 1.3 million and 2.5 million might be
prevented by eliminating the vitamin deficiency, the total direct and indirect damage from malnutri-
for a gain of 39 million to 74 million DALYs. Dam- tion is at least 20 to 25 percent of the disease bur-
age from being underweight and from vitamin A den in children.
deficiency cannot be added together because many Links between nutrition and growth in child-
children suffer from both problems. Nonetheless, hood persist into adulthood. Both height and

77


--- Page 92 ---
weight affect the risk of adult mortality. For men part of the year when malnutrition is most preva-
and women at all ages, greater height is associated lent. Small variations in diet can be fatal to chil-
with greater survival. Stunted adults are at par- dren already at risk.
ticularly high risk of cardiovascular disease and The extreme form of this risk is widespread fam-
obstructive lung disease. If the relative risk of ine as a result of a breakdown in food production,
death associated with stunting is the same in low- food distribution, or the flow of income with
income countries as for richer populations, ap- which people buy food. Famines occurred in
proximately 300,000 adult female deaths between China in 1959-61, in Bangladesh in 1974, in Ethio-
the ages of 15 and 59 can be attributed to stunting. pia and the Sahel in 1973-74, in Ethiopia and
Sources of malnutrition Somalia in the 1980s, and in Somalia and Sudan in
the early 1990s. As many as 30 million people are
Both food consumption and communicable dis- believed to have died in the Chinese famine and
ease affect nutritional status by way of a "malnu- hundreds of thousands in the recent famines in
trition-infection complex." Food consumption de- Sub-Saharan Africa. A relatively small number of
pends both on people's capacity to acquire food people die from outright starvation; many die of
and on their knowledge of how to choose a nutri- infectious diseases, to which people weakened by
hunger are especially susceptible.
tious diet. For infants the chief determinant of nu- Public action is critical in preventing a food crisis
tritional status is whether they are exclusively from becoming a famine. A combination of actions
breastfed for at least the first four to six months of is required to ensure that food is available in fam-
life. In southern Brazil infants who were not ine areas (through both market and nonmarket
breastfed were eighteen times as likely to die from mechanisms) and to sustain the incomes of vulner-
diarrhea and three times as likely to die from respi- able households (through public employment or
ratory illness as breastfed babies, both because other transfers). This is particularly difficult when
they got less to eat and because of increased risk of there is a breakdown in order: the major African
infection. After six months children need solid famines of the past decade were mostly associated
food even if they are still breastfed. The composi- with war.
tion and hygiene of this food are crucial to contin- Hunger and crowding into refugee camps facili-
ued good health. tate the spread of infectious disease and raise the
risk of death from it, particularly when such
INCOME AND FOOD SECURITY. Chronic malnutri- camps are first established. Control of communica-
tion is mostly a consequence of poverty. Higher ble disease is as crucial as the provision of food or
income allows people to buy a more balanced diet, of money to buy food. Even when refugee popula-
as well as better hygiene and medical care. In In- tions are protected from starvation, they are often
donesia during 1984-87 rising incomes translated exposed to micronutrient deficiencies because they
into reduced malnutrition in nearly all fifty-two are dependent on just a few foodstuffs. In recent
regions of the country. The fraction of families eat- years there have been outbreaks of scurvy (vitamin
ing less than 2,200 calories per person per dayan C deficiency) in Ethiopia and Somalia, pellagra
energy intake adequate for only light physical ac- (niacin deficiency) among Mozambican refugees in
tivitydeclined only 2 percentage points, but the Malawi, and ben-ben (thiamine deficiency)among
decline was 9 percentage points at 1,800 calories Cambodian refugees in Thailand. In nonfamine
and 26 percentage points at 1,400 calories. Con- conditions these diseases make no contribution to
versely, increases in food prices in Côte d'Ivoire the world's burden of disease.
during the 1980s reduced the weight of both chil- Beyond ensuring food distribution and control-
dren and adults. Nutrition is also affected by who ling the diseases that can easily become epidemics
in the household controls the money; women's in conditions of social and sanitary breakdown,
income is more likely than men's to be spent on governments have two overriding responsibilities
better nutrition. in famines. The first is to recognize the early signs
Chronic food insecurity for poor people is often of trouble and act before large numbers of people
made worse by seasonal fluctuations in availability have become destitute. The second is to allow free
and prices. In India and the Philippines temporal flow of information about conditions during the
variation in children's food intake is greatest famine so that relief agencies and others can react.
among poor households, and severely malnour- Hiding the extent of a disaster only makes it
ished children are more likely to die during that worse.

78


--- Page 93 ---
DIET AND DISEASE. Some children receive so lit- nicable diseases but can also increase diseases of
tle to eat that getting more food is by far the most dietary excess. As diets change, usually to include
important means of improving their growth. But a smaller proportion of complex carbohydrates
for those with a barely adequate diet, controlling and more sugar and animal fat, people become
infectious disease can be as important as getting more susceptible to cardiovascular disease and to
more food. (This is the most common situation in cancers of the colon, prostate, and breast. Obesity
poor countries.) In the absence of diarrhea, studies becomes more prevalent and increases the risk of
have found little difference in growth in children premature death, particularly from cardiovascular
up to thirty-six months of age despite significant diseases and diabetes. Increased sugar consump-
differences in energy intake. Children with both tion contributes to dental caries and may raise the
low energy intake and diarrhea grow less. Diar- risk of diabetes. High salt intake increases hyper-
rhea has little effect on the growth of adequately tension, raising the risks of stroke and cardio-
fed children. However, a diet adequate for healthy vascular disease. For people eating a modern
children may be inadequate under the additional "Western" diet, a 60 percent reduction in lifetime
demand imposed by infection. salt intake would reduce the risk of death from
Control of parasitic worms can also help im- coronary disease at age 55 by 16 percent and the
prove nutrition for older children. Hookworm and risk of death from stroke by 23 percent. The share
other intestinal worm infections cause anemia, of the disease burden attributable to these dietary
and roundwormsthe most prevalent of all changes is unknown but may be quite large.
wormscompete with the host for food. All these The diseases of overnutrition, which strike peo-
infections may suppress appetite and reduce food ple later in life, may seem unimportant compared
intake. More than 1 billion people are infected with those of undernutrition. The burden of car-
with one or more of these parasites, and about 100 diovascular disease and of some cancers, however,
million of them suffer from stunting or wasting. is already important in Brazil, China, and other
Recent intervention studies show rapid spurts in developing countries; the demographic and epi-
height after children are treated for worm infec- demiological transitions documented in Chapter 1
tions, suggesting that these infections may be sig- will accelerate this trend. Treatment of chronic dis-
nificant contributors to malnutrition and that it ease is often expensive or ineffective, so modifying
may be easier to reverse stunting in older children diet and other risks is the best way of avoiding
than was previously believed. growth in the burden from these diseases and in
Malaria is the other major infection leading to unnecessary health care expenditure.
malnutrition, particularly anemia. It is an impor- Other interventions for better nutrition
tant risk factor in much of Africa. Control of ma-
laria has led to substantial decreases in the preva- Six other interventions, in addition to control of
lence of anemia. infectious diseases, may help to reduce malnutri-
tion: nutrition education, control of intestinal
LACK OF NUTRITIONAL KNOWLEDGE. People may parasites, micronutrient fortification of food, mi-
eat more poorly than their incomes allow because cronutrient supplementation, food supplementa-
of ignorance. This is most true for vitamin A; defi- tion, and food price subsidies. Control of parasites
ciencies persist although almost everywhere in the was discussed above; the other five interventions
world foods rich in vitamin A can be grown at low are reviewed here.
cost in family gardens or commercially The effect
of ignorance cannot be quantified, but it is striking NUTRITION EDUCATION. Inducing behavioral
that it often increases the gender or age bias of changethus enabling families to improve their
malnutrition. In a number of Asian and African diets even without additional incomeis often the
countries, children and women, especially preg- most cost-effective way to improve nutritional sta-
nant women, are discouraged from eating eggs tus. In Indonesia a large-scale program to teach
and fruit. Ignorance also interacts with economic mothers about child feeding has reduced malnutri-
factors. When the price of leafy vegetables rich in tion among children at very low cost. In a Colom-
vitamin A rises in the Philippines, people switch to bian program using food supplements and "ma-
vegetables containing much less of the vitamin. ternal tutoring," the effects of education on
children's height and weight were as large as the
THE NUTRITION TRANSITION AND CHRONIC effects of extra food. Education about feeding chil-
DISEASE. Better nutritional status reduces commu- dren adequately during illness is particularly im-

79


--- Page 94 ---
portant in dealing with the interaction of malnutri- and may require efforts to compensate for the cost
tion and infection. It may also ensure that in time that breastfeeding imposes on women.
additional food is actually consumed by the family Breastfeeding may be incompatible with some oc-
members who need it most. cupations, but in most cases modification of work-
Probably the most valuable form of nutrition ed- place practices can facilitate nursing by working
ucation is promotion of breastfeeding. The princi- mothers.
pal gain is improved child health, but the nursing
mother also benefits from conservation of iron MICRONUTRIENT FORTIFICATION. Fortifying the
stores (because menstruation is suppressed), bet- foods people already eat raises micronutrient in-
ter spacing of births, decreased risk of breast or takes even without a change in eating habits. Bra-
ovarian cancer, and possibly less postpartum zil's national salt iodization program, which began
bleeding. The economic benefits to families and in 1978, greatly reduced endemic goiter in areas of
health facilities can be substantial. Breast-milk sub- iodine deficiency. Many experimental programs
stitutes would cost an estimated $15 billion a year have also shown the value of fortification. In Chile
for the 120 million infants now relyingon mother's the addition of iron to powdered milk and soy-
milk. Promotion of breastfeeding in a large Philip- based infant formula decreased anemia in nine-
pine hospital saved 8 percent of the budget by re- month-old babies from 32 to 12 percent and in fif-
ducing the cost of substitute foods and the time teen-month-olds from 30 to 6 percent. Iron is also
spent in feeding by nursery staff. Such programs often added to flour. Vitamin A can be added to a
require education of both mothers and health pro- variety of foods, including sugar, milk, cereals,
fessionals (who often discourage breastfeeding) and monosodium glutamate (MSG). Fortification

Box 4.2 The Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project: making supplementary
feeding work
In the late 1970s the government of the state of Tamil feeding was continued for up to 180 days. Intensive
Nadu in south India was operating twenty-five differ- nutrition education was directed at mothers of at-risk
ent supplementary feeding programs. Evaluation children. Food supplementation was also offered to
showed these programs to be ineffective and identified women whose children were being fed, to those who
several reasons. The programs were not directed to- had numerous children, and to those who were nurs-
ward malnourished children; they provided food that ing while pregnant.
was often not suitable for small children and was eaten The project cut severe malnutrition in half and pre-
by other family members; they replaced rather than vented many at-risk children from becoming malnour-
supplemented home consumption of food; they did ished. Of those receiving food supplementation, 67
not educate mothers; and they failed to provide percent gained enough weight to graduate in ninety
needed nutrition-related health care. The Tamil Nadu days; all except the severely malnourished graduated
Integrated Nutrition Project, the first phase of which within 150 days. Because participants were fed only
ran from 1980 to 1989, was accordingly designed to when required, food was only 13 percent of the proj-
target services more effectively, to improve family nu- ect's total cost, much less than is typical in supplemen-
trition and health practices, and to improve maternal tation programs. (The initial share dropped during the
and child health services. course of the project as the number of children who
Children ages 6-36 months were weighed each needed feeding declined.) When the program began,
month. Of every 100 children selected for feeding, 44 in 1980, 45 to 50 percent of the children required feed-
were normal in weight but faltering in growth, 34 were ing; by 1988 the project had brought the share down to
moderately malnourished and faltering, and 22 were 24 percent. Selective, limited-duration supplementary
severely malnourished. Supplementary feeding was feeding worked in Tamil Nadu because the community I
provided immediately to those who were severely mal- nutrition workers were well trained and highly moti-
nourished, and feeding for children with faltering vated and because mothers came to understand the
growth was provided after one month (for children importance of feeding for healthy growth and were
I ages 6-12 months) or three months (for children ages pleased when their children grew well. The experience
12-35 months). The children selected were fed for at of Tamil Nadu suggests that appropriate supplemen-
least ninety days. If they failed to gain at least 500 tary feeding is both an inexpensive and an effective
grams in weight, they were referred to health care, and form of nutrition education.
I

80


--- Page 95 ---
of MSG in Indonesia cut child mortality by 30 per- nomic stagnation. There was rio improvement in
cent. Whenever a food consumed by the target districts not participating in the program. A large-
population can be fortified at reasonable cost, for- scale program in Chile substantially reduced child-
tification can provide the same benefits as promot- hood malnutrition while increasing the use of the
ing changes in diet and may be quicker and easier. public health system. In many countries free meals
for schoolchildren may have little effect on their
MICRONUTRIENT SUPPLEMENTATION. Supplying nutritional status but improve school attendance
micronutrients separately from food requires regu- and performance. In general, food supplementa-
lar, sometimes frequent, contact with the target tion works best when it is used to motivate and
population. This may make it more difficult to sus- educate mothers to care for their children's health,
tain high coverage. It may also make supplements when it can be concentrated within a crucial inter-
more costly than fortification of foodsalthough val (during pregnancy, for example), or when it
micronutrient supplementation can be added at provides additional, rionnutritional benefits.
very low marginal cost to immunization programs
or school-based dewormirig programs. Vitamin A FOOD PRICE SUBSIDIES. Letting people buy basic
can be given in capsules at intervals of one week to foodstuffs more cheaply can, in theory, increase
six months, reducing the risk of blindness substan- intake of particular foods, but there are often prac-
tially. Vitamin A supplementation can reduce mor- tical problems in targeting subsidies to needy
tality from measles and diarrheal disease by about households. Targeting by locale or by commodities
30 percent but has little effect on deaths from res- eaten primarily by poor people is more efficient
piratory disease. than wasteful general subsidies but less precise
Iodine can also be provided as a supplement to than targeting according to specific needs. Ineffi-
diets. Oral doses of iodized oil protect for two to ciencies in administration can eat up much of the
four years, and injectable oil protects for three to potential benefit. One large urban subsidy pro-
five years. Side effects are usually not serious and gram in Brazil has often sold food for nearly the
occur mostly in older adults. Supplements for same price as private markets, despite a nominal
women of reproductive age prevent mental retar- 20 percent price reduction. When such waste is
dation in their children and reduce the risks of avoided, targeted subsidies can effectively transfer
infant mortality. Iron deficiency is the most diffi- income to poor households. As with direct trans-
cult micronutrient shortage to combat by supple- fers of income or of food, subsidies are more likely
mentation: tablets must be taken every day, and to improve nutrition and health when they are
they often cause side effects. Because these prob- combined with nutrition education and related
lems limit compliance, supplements are usually health interventions. Unless that is done, sub-
given only to pregnant women, who suffer most sidies are not cost-effective.
from anemia. When the principal cause of iron de- There is a strong case for government interven-
ficiency is infection with hookworm and other tion to improve health by improving nutrition, but
parasites, however, iron supplements are also not for interfering generally in food markets, ex-
given to all those treated for a limited period after cept in extraordinary conditions such as famine.
deworming. Government action in nutrition has often been
wasteful because it has duplicated what private
FOOD SUPPLEMENTATION. Programs that provide markets do and has paid too little attention to the
food instead of micronutrient supplements are causes of poverty and to cost-effective measures
harder to implement effectively. Inadequate tar- that improve families' knowledge and capacity to
geting, replacement of food from the normal diet, feed themselves adequately. Reductions in mortal-
or lack of attention to other causes of malnutrition ity, blindness, mental impairment, and anemia can
often mean that the food is wasted. With proper make fortification and supplementation extremely
targeting and attention to changing behavior, cost-effective, comparable to the best control mea-
however, some supplementation programs have sures for other diseases (Table 4.4). A year of
been made to work. A program in Tamil Nadu, healthy life can be bought for less than $10 with
India, achieved remarkable gains by distributing some micronutrient interventions and for less than
food only when children's growth faltered, while $100 with programs that provide food supple-
providing information to mothers continuously ments sparingly and combine them with behav-
through highly motivated community nutrition ioral change and health care. Improved adult
workers (Box 4.2). This success came despite eco- health, more productive schooling, higher in-

81


--- Page 96 ---
Table 4.4 Cost-effectiveness of nutrition interventions

Approximate cost (dollars)
Intervention Target group Per death averted Per DALY saved
Iron supplementation Pregnant women 800 13
Iron fortification Entire population 2,000 4
Iodine supplementation Women of reproductive age 1,250 19
Iodine supplementation Entire population 4,650 37
lodization of salt or water Entire population 1,000 8
Vitamin A supplementationa Children under age 5 50 I
Vitamin A fortification Entire population 154 4
Food supplementation Children under age 5 1,942 63
Food supplementation Pregnant women" 733 24
Semiannual mass dose.
Deaths averted and DALYs saved are for fetal deaths.
Source: Pinstrup-Andersen and others forthcoming; Levin and others forthcoming.

Fertility has been declining worldwide, but at comes, and other benefits that come with good
different paces. childhood nutritional status strengthen the case
for appropriate nutrition interventions.
Figure 4.2 Total fertility rates Fertility
by demographic region, 1950-95 All pregnancies and births carry some health risks
to the mother and the child. But the risks arehigher when women have health problems (such
Total fertility rate as high blood pressure, heart disease, malaria, or
7 diabetes) that could be aggravated by pregnancy,
when pregnancies come too early or too late in a
woman's reproductive life, when they are too
closely spaced or are unwanted, and when they
occur to high-parity women (for example, those
who have already had four or more babies).
The use of family planning services by couples is
an effective means of avoiding many of these fer-
tility-related health risks, and it enables families to
achieve their fertility goals. In many parts of the
world, fertility has been falling over time as the
use of family planning spreads (Figure 4.2). Gov-
ernments can do much to help couples by promot-
ing family planning as a socially acceptable prac-
tice, by providing information on the health effects
1950 60 70 80 90 95 of fertility regulation, by teaching couples about
effective methods of contraception, and by remov-
- Sub-Saharan Africa ing restrictions on the marketing of contraceptives.
India Subsidies may be justified in low-income popula-
- China tions, in rural areas, and for programs targeted to
Other Asia and islands young people. Nongovernmental organizations
- Latin America and the Caribbean and the private sector will often have a large role in
- Middle Eastern crescent service provision. Ensuring access to safe abortion
- Formerly socialist economies of Europe can complement family planning services in im-
proving health.
Established market economies Fertility patterns and health

Note: Dotted lines represent projected values.
Source: World Bank data. Births to very young women elevate the health
risks to both mother and child. Births that are too

82


--- Page 97 ---
Child mortality risks are higher for babies born shortlij after a zious hi ung mothers.

Figure 4.3 Risk of death by age 5 for fertility-related risk factors in selected countries, late 1980s

Age of mother Length of previous birth interval

Percentage increase in child mortality Percentage increase in child mortality
(in relation to children (in relation to children born 24 to 48
born to women ages 20-34) months after the previous birth)
220 200 160 120 80 40 0 0 40 80 120 160 200220

Egypt

Guatemala

Indonesia

Kenya

Under 18 0 o Less than 18 months
18-19 0 18-24 months

Source: Hobcraft 1991.

closely spaced increase the risk of child mortality; to avoid such births. If the closely spaced births
births at older ages and higher parities are riskier were delayed until mothers wanted them, overall
to mothers, as are unwanted pregnancies that lead child mortality in those countries might be re-
to unsafe abortion or to neglect of prenatal care. duced by more than 20 percent. The reduction
could be as large as 30 percent in Brazil, Colombia,
THE TIMING OF BIRTHS AND CHILD HEALTH. Short Ecuador, Peru, and Tunisia, where between 40 and
birth intervals pose substantial risks to child health 50 percent of births are spaced too closely.
throughout the first five years of life (Figure 4.3).
In Kenya, for example, infants born within eigh- CHILDBEARING AND MATERNAL HEALTH. Each
teen months of the birth of a previous child are year about 430,000 women in developing countries
more than twice as likely to die as those born after die from complications associated with childbear-
a longer interval. In Egypt the risks are more than ing. In the absence of obstetric care, women who
triple. Babies born to teenage women are also at have a birth before age 18 are three times as likely
greater risk of dying. In Indonesia, for example, to die in childbirth as those who have a birth be-
babies born to mothers age 18 and under are 50 tween ages 20 and 29; for women over 34, the risk
percent more likely to die than those born to of maternal mortality is five times as high. First
women ages 20-24. births are often riskier than second or third births,
Surveys taken in twenty-five developing coun- but as parity rises thereafter, the risk of maternal
tries in the 1980s show that, on average, nearly 35 mortality also climbs. In Jamaica the risk increases
percent of births occur within twenty-four months by 65 percent after the third birth. In Kenya, the
of the previous birth and that many women wish Philippines, and Zimbabwe 30 to 60 percent of

83


--- Page 98 ---
pregnant women are estimated to be at elevated tion of contraceptives, and abandonment of un-
risk of death on account of either age or parity. necessary prescription requirements. Experience
Maternal deaths also arise from unsafe abortion. in the formerly socialist economies of Europe has
Almost 30 percent of pregnancies end in abortion, shown that all such constraints reduce contracep-
for a total of about 55 million induced abortions in tive use and often damage maternal and child
the world each year; 25 million of these are per- health. Demand for many contraceptive supplies
formed under unsafe conditions. The damage to and services can be met by private doctors and
maternal health arises mainly from infection (the commercial outlets, especially in towns and, for
long-run consequences of which include ectopic some methods (such as condoms), in rural areas as
pregnancy, chronic pain, and infertility), hemor- well.
rhage, damage to the cervix or uterus, and reaction Use of contraceptives is the best way to avoid
to anesthesia and the drugs used to induce abor- unwanted pregnancies, but it is not foolproof. For
tion. About 60,000 women a year are estimated to women who wish to terminate their pregnancies,
die from unsafe abortions (see Appendix table access to safe abortion as a complement to contra-
B.8); other estimates range as high as 200,000. ceptive services is also important to women's
Treatment of abortion-related complications can health.
consume significant resources. In Brazil in 1988
about 2 percent of all hospital admissions in the REACHING LOW-INCOME AND RURAL POPULATIONS.
publicly financed, privately provided health sys- The health infrastructure in poor countries is often
tem were for abortion-related complications, and limited in its ability to reach highly dispersed
the costs amounted to about 6 percent of all spend- populations in rural areas. In rural Uganda, for
ing on obstetrics and 1 percent of all hospital example, travel time to the nearest family planning
spending in that system. facility averages one hour, whereas it is only fif-
Better health through family planning services teen minutes in rural Thailand. Long waits at the
Family planning services can help women reduce facility are another problem; a study of clinics in
the health risks from mistimed and unwanted several Latin American countries found that wait-
pregnancies. In low-income populations and in ing times for initial visits averaged one hour and
twenty minutes. In many countries rural women
rural areas there is a strong case on equity grounds have no access to family planning fieldworkers
for the government to subsidize and organize the who can provide information and simple services.
provision of family planning services, using public In Guatemala, for example, 86 percent of rural
as well as nongovernmental and private channels women live in communities without a family plan-
as appropriate. In these settings subsidized family ning fieldworker; in Egypt the figure is only
planning services are often the most effective way 33 percent. Community-based strategies have
of transmitting family planning information to the been used with success in some countries to reach
poor. They can also be an efficient means of im- low-income women. In Colombia, Zaire, and
proving the welfare of poor families, especially Zimbabwe community-based-distribution (CBD)
when private medical care is unavailable. For both workers serve the dual purpose of spreading infor-
reasons, family planning services are part of the mation about family planning and providing the
minimum essential clinical package discussed in most isolated populations with family planning
the next chapter. Special efforts are also appropri- methodsprimarily barrier methods, such as con-
ate for addressing the needs of adolescents, both doms and foaming tablets, but also oral
because they tend to be particularly uninformed contraceptives.
about reproductive health risks and because Family planning services provided through
they often misjudge the consequences of early community-based distribution are a highly cost-
childbearing. effective means of improving maternal and child
Beyond providing subsidized services to specific health. In countries where both mortality and fer-
populations, the government also has a role in en- tility are still relatively high, the cost per child
suring access to family planning services for those death averted is extremely low. In Mali, for exam-
able and willing to pay. Encouraging better ser- ple, it averages about $130, which corresponds to a
vices and availability of more contraceptive mere $4 to $5 per DALY gained. In other countries,
methods requires various changes, including re- such as Colombia, Mexico, and Thailandwhere
moval of price controls and bans on contraceptive mortality and fertility are substantially lower-
advertising, easing of restrictions on the importa- CBD family planning services cost no more than

84


--- Page 99 ---
$25 per DALY gained and thus remain highly cost- women to discontinue contraceptive use. In Thai-
effective. land and Colombia, where the programs offer
good services, about 6 percent of users quit each
REACHING YOUNG PEOPLE. In developing coun- year for these reasons; in Paraguay as many as 18
tries childbearing among teenage women (ages 15- percent of users discontinue annually.
19) is common. Surveys in the 1980s in Liberia, There is considerable scope for broadening the
Mali, and Uganda show that more than one in five range and quality of contraceptive methods. India,
teenage women had had at least one child or was for example, has for a long time heavily empha-
pregnant at the time of the interview. In Latin sized sterilization and offered attractive financial
American and Caribbean countries 16 percent of incentives to both clients and providers. A nation-
all births in 1992 were to teenage mothers. Adoles- wide survey in 1986-87 showed that among non-
cent pregnancies are often unintended and tend to sterilized couples seeking a temporary method of
be more prevalent among low-income women. In contraception, nearly 75 percent of those who
both Ghana and Kenya, for example, about 40 per- wanted intrauterine devices (IUDs) reported fail-
cent of married teenagers who have had children ure to get them, 67 percent reported failure to get
said their first pregnancies were unintended; contraceptive pills, and 40 percent reported not
among unmarried teenagers the proportion of un- being able to get condoms. In China, where steel-
intended births rose to 58 percent in Ghana and 77 ring IUDs have been in widespread use, the gov-
percent in Kenya. A 1986 study of Brazilian ernment, because of concern about the risk to
women showed that 65 percent of those who be- women's health, recently decided to switch to the
came mothers before age 20 came from poor fami- safer Copper-T IUDs. In some countries the range
lies (that is, those with household income below of available methods is constrained because public
the national median), in contrast to 48 percent for sector providers are required to use products on an
women who delayed childbearing. essential drug list and the list mistakenly excludes
Family life education in schools and other some contraceptive methods. Other constraints on
venues can help teenagers make informed choices method availability include excessively restrictive
about sexual behavior and the prevention of sexu- medical screening requirements, unnecessary or
ally transmitted disease (STD). Family planning duplicative approval procedures, packaging and
services are needed to help sexually active adoles- labeling requirements that perform no useful func-
cents prevent pregnancies. And programs to help tion but increase costs, and import restrictions or
teenagers cope with unintended pregnancies, es- tariffs. A study in Indonesia that surveyed a group
pecially premarital ones, can be especially valu- of women eighteen months after they started
able. In Jamaica the Women's Center Program has using contraceptives found that, all else being the
had some success in helping young mothers to same, women who failed to get their contraceptive
complete their schooling after childbirth and to method of choice were more than three times as
avoid another mistimed pregnancy. likely to have discontinued use as women who did
receive their preferred method.
IMPROVING SERVICES AND ENCOURAGING GREATER Providing an appropriate mix of contraceptive
VARIETY IN METHODS. The quality of family plan- methods can also help to reduce the spread of
ning services in developing countries has been im- STDs and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
proving, but more can be done. Providing good Linking the provision of family planning services
counseling to clients is important, in part because with screening programs for STDs requires a clini-
women's contraceptive needs change over the re- cal setting in which positive diagnoses may be fol-
productive life cycle. Temporary methods are lowed up with treatment. The discussions of AIDS
more appropriate earlier in the cycle, while perma- in this chapter, below, and in Chapter 5 address
nent methods are more appropriate toward the this point in more detail.
end. And certain methods are more or less suitable
depending on the duration of protection desired ENSURING ACCESS TO SAFE ABORTION. In 1990
and on whether the woman is breastfeeding. Com- about 40 percent of the world's population lived in
petent advice offered with sensitivity can help cli- countries where induced abortion was permitted
ents choose the right method at each stage and use on request, 25 percent lived where it was allowed
it effectively while also addressing their concerns only if the woman's life was in danger, and the
about possible side effects. Dissatisfaction with remaining 35 percent lived in places where abor-
services and contraceptive failure often cause tion laws varied in strictness between these ex-

85


--- Page 100 ---
In Roman ía, maternal deaths shot up when abortion maternal mortality rate had risen by nearly 40 per-
was banned and fell sharply when it was legalized. cent above the level in 1965 (Figure 4.4). Before
1966 Romania's maternal mortality rate was simi-
Figure 4.4 Maternal mortality in Romania, lar to the rates in other Eastern European coun-
1965-91 tries. By 1989 it was at least ten times the rate of
almost any other European country. In 1990 Ro-
mania's new government legalized abortion, and
Maternal deaths per 100,000 live births the decline in maternal mortality was immediate
180 and even sharper than its rise following the ban:
only one year after abortion was legalized, mater-
nal mortality had fallen to just 40 percent of the
A 1989 level. The percentage of all maternal deaths
All causes caused by abortion dropped from nearly 90 per-
IA cent before the ban on abortion was lifted to just
over 60 percent in 1990.

COSTS AND POTENTIAL GAINS IN HEALTH. Family
planning services, particularly when delivered
through community-based distribution, are
among the most cost-effective means of improving
maternal and child health. There is much scope for
improving services in developing countries, where
more than one women in five who wants to avoid
pregnancy is not using contraception. In Bolivia,
Ghana, Kenya, Liberia, and Togo at least one in
three women ages 15-49 falls into this category.
Lack of access to family planning services is one
Abortion legalized reason for not using themalthough it is certainly
not the only one. The cost of supplying family
Abortion made illegal planning services to women without access (num-
bering an estimated 120 million in the developing
world) is estimated at about $2 billion annually for
developing countries as a whole. Selective alloca-
N tion of public resources to address the needs of
these women, particularly those in poor families,
Source: Adapted from Stephenson and others 1992, which would be a cost-effective means of promoting their
used Romanian Ministry of Health data. well-being, as well as that of their children. Satis-
fying the expressed wish of women to space or
limit future births might each year avert as many
as 100,000 maternal deaths and 850,000 deaths
tremes. In countries where abortion is illegal, among children under 5.
women resort to clandestine, and often unsafe,
abortions at high risk to their health. Legalizing Reducing abuse of tobacco, alcohol, and drugs
abortion is inadequate for protecting maternal
health when problems with access continue. In In- Decisions about the use of tobacco, alcohol, and
dia, for example, abortion is legal but not readily other drugs are among the most important health-
available, and many women continue to rely on related choices that individuals can make. Because
unsafe abortion, with detrimental effects to their individual options are limited by the strongly ad-
health. dictive character of these substances, and because
Romania's experience is the most striking exam- addiction is often established in adolescence, deci-
ple of the impact of abortion laws on maternal sions about the control of tobacco and other addic-
health. In 1966 the government banned abortion tive substances are among the most important
and contraception and took steps to enforce the health-related choices that societies can make col-
law. The consequences were dramatic: by 1970 the lectively. In many populations prolonged cigarette

86


--- Page 101 ---
smoking is already the greatest single cause of pre- crease in consumption from 500 billion cigarettes
mature death. Alcohol and other drugs also con- in 1978 to 1,700 billion in 1992 has produced smok-
tribute to disease and disability. The damage from ing patterns that, if they persist, will eventually
substance abuse is not limited to the individuals result in about 2 million deaths a year from to-
involved; others also suffer indirectly because of bacco. Similar consumption patterns exist in sev-
drunk driving, fires, passive smoking, and drug- eral other countries. If, as now, about one-third of
related crime and violence. the world's young adults become regular cigarette
Several sorts of government policy can be used smokers and, as in industrial countries, more than
to discourage consumption of tobacco, alcohol, one-third of them die prematurely because of the
and other drugs. Educating the public about the habit, then, of the 120 million who reach adult life
harmful effects of these substances is essential. each year, more than 10 percentmore than 12
Appropriate action will often involve special em- million a yearwill die prematurely because of to-
phasis not only on reaching school-age children bacco. On current smoking patterns, the chief un-
but also on helping adults to escape from addic- certainty is not whether mortality from tobacco
tion. Tax policies on tobacco and alcohol have also will reach 12 million a year in the second quarter of
reduced consumption, especially by discouraging the next century, but exactly when it will do so.
use by young adults before they become addicted. Largely because of the long delay between cause
Governments can ban all direct or indirect adver- and full effect, people tend to misjudge the haz-
tising or promotion of tobacco goods or trade- ards of tobacco. When a generation of young
marks and could do the same for alcohol. adults begins to smoke, they do not witness the
Tobacco high mortality associated with their behavior until
Tobacco is in legal use everywhere in the world, they reach middle age. The best-documented ex-
yet it causes far more deaths than all other psycho- ample of this delay is that of men in the United
active substances combined. About 3 million pre- States, among whom the main increase in smok-
mature deaths a year (6 percent of the world total) ing took place before 1945. In 1945 smoking was
are already attributable to tobacco smoking. If cur- common but lung cancer rare, as in developing
rent trends continue, deaths from tobacco world- countries today. Over the next forty years (1945-
wide are projected to reach 10 million a year, or 85) the smoking habit did not change greatly
more than 10 percent of total deaths, by the second among young men in the United States, but lung
quarter of the next century. Tobacco is already re- cancer in this population rose sharply (Figure 4.5).
sponsible for 30 percent of all cancer deaths in de- Among U.S. nonsmokers lung cancer remained
veloped countries, including deaths from cancers approximately constant at a low level during 1965-
of the lung, oral cavity, larynx, esophagus, blad- 85, but among smokers the rates increased twen-
der, pancreas, and kidney. Even more people die tyfold. In 1985 tobacco caused the large majority
from tobacco-related diseases other than cancer, (110,000) of all lung cancer deaths, among both
including stroke, myocardial infarction, aortic an- males and females, in the United States, as well as
eurysm, and peptic ulcer. In countries where an even larger number (290,000) of deaths from
smoking has long been widespread, tobacco use is other diseases, for about 20 percent of 2 million
now responsible for about 30 percent of all male U.S. deaths. About half of those killed by tobacco
deaths in middle age. Smoking also harms the were still in middle age (35-69) and thereby lost
health of others. Among nonsmokers, exposure to almost twenty-five years of nonsmoker life
environmental tobacco smoke increases the risk of expectancy.
lung cancer. And the babies of mothers who Effective discouragement of addiction to tobacco
smoke weigh, on average, 200 grams less at birth involves slow social changes that take place over
than those of nonsmokers. many years. Public education is central to this pro-
cess. In China, the United Kingdom, and the
Per capita consumption of tobacco is decreasing United States, autonomous national action groups
slowly in industrial countries and has remained such as Action on Smoking and Health have
relatively unchanged in the formerly socialist helped sustain serious efforts to alert people to the
economies. By contrast, per capita tobacco con- hazards of tobacco consumption and, through le-
sumption is rising in many developing countries gal action, to protect the public from the harmful
among both men and women and is expected to health effects of the habit. Governments can con-
increase by about 12 percent between 1990 and tribute to the efforts of citizen groups by, for exam-
2000 (see Appendix table A.6). In China the in- ple, requiring prominent health warnings on ciga-

87


--- Page 102 ---
The spread of cigarette smoking among U.S. males free zones. Tobacco consumption per adult ap-
was followed by mounting lung cancer ratesbut pears to have fallen between 1975 and 1990. China,
only after a decades-long delay. with 300 million smokers, is following a similar
path: in 1992 it banned most tobacco advertising,
mandated health education for youths, prohibited
Figure 4.5 Trends in mortality from lung smoking in many public places, and required pro-
cancer and various other cancers among gressive reduction of tar levels. In support of
U.S. males, 1930-90 countries' efforts to discourage tobacco consump-
Deaths per 100,000 males a tion, the World Bank in 1992 set forth a new policy
80 on tobacco (Box 4.3).
Tobacco has traditionally been taxed, although
probably because it is a good source of revenue
rather than for the health gains. Taxation reduces
consumption, especially among the young. In in-
dustrial countries a 10 percent price increase re-
duces consumption by about 4 percent in the gen-
eral population and about 13 percent among
adolescents. Besides having few resources, most
adolescent smokers probably have not been smok-
ing long enough to be fully addicted and so tend to
be more price sensitive than other smokers. In In-
dia cigarette sales declined by 15 percent after the
excise tax on most of the popular cigarette brands
more than doubled in 1986. In Papua New Guinea
a 10 percent increase in the tobacco tax reduced
consumption by 7 percent.

1930 40 50 60 70 80 85Alcohol and illegal drugs
Alcohol-related diseases affect 5 to 10 percent of
Lung cancer the world's population each year and accounted
-. Various other cancers for about 3 percent of the global burden of disease
in 1990. Of the 2 million alcohol-related deaths
Note: Other cancers shown include leukemia and cancers that occur worldwide each year, about 50 percent
of the bladder, esophagus, pancreas, liver, prostate, stem from cirrhosis of the liver, about 35 per-
stomach, and colon and rectum. cent from cancer of the liver or esophagus, 10
a. Adjusted to the age structure of the U.S. population in percent from alcohol dependence syndrome, and
1970.
Source: Boring, Squires, and Tong 1993. 5 percent from injuries caused by motor vehicles.
The problems caused by alcohol abuse consume
scarce medical resources and extend beyond the
damage that drinkers do to themselves. In many
Latin American countries in the 1980s, 20 percent
rette packages and advertisements, as well as by of all hospital and emergency room admissions
targeting of clear messages not only to school-age were alcohol-related. In Papua New Guinea more
children but also to adults. Reaching adults is im- than 85 percent of fatal road accidents in the 1980s
portant because over the next few decades it is involved either drunk drivers or drunk pedes-
those who are already smoking who will account trians. Within households, drinking often leads to
for nearly all of the tens of millions of deaths per assault and injury, although the scale of the prob-
decade caused by tobacco. Some countries go fur- lem is hard to quantify.
ther by banning commercial promotion of tobacco Alcohol consumption is stable in the industrial
goods and tobacco trademarks and by placing re- world but is on the rise in many developing coun-
strictions on public smoking. Singapore has been tries. Between 1960 and 1981 annual beer con-
in the forefront of public activism in Asia: it has sumption per capita rose from 12 liters to 135 liters
prohibited advertising (since 1971), issued strong in Gabon and from 3 liters to 20 liters in Côte
warnings on health effects, and created smoke- d'Ivoire. Total world production of beer nearly

88


--- Page 103 ---
Box 4.3 World Bank policy on tobacco

In 1992, in recognition of the adverse effects of tobacco requirements. The World Bank seeks to help these
consumption on health, the World Bank articulated a countries diversify away from tobacco.
formal policy on tobacco. The policy contains five main To the extent practicable, the World Bank does not
points. lend indirectly for tobacco production activities, al-
The World Bank's activities in the health sector though some indirect support of the tobacco economy
including sector work, policy dialogue, and lending may occur as an inseparable part of a project that has a
discourage the use of tobacco products. broader set of objectives and outcomes (for example,
The World Bank does not lend directly for, invest rural roads).
in, or guarantee investments or loans for tobacco pro- Unmanufactured and manufactured tobacco, to-
duction, processing, or marketing. However, in the bacco-processing machinery and equipment, and re-
few countries that are heavily dependent on tobacco as lated services are included on the negative list of im-
a source of income and of foreign exchange earnings ports in loan agreements and so cannot be included
(for example, those where tobacco accounts for more among imports financed under loans.
than 10 percent of exports) and especially as a source of Tobacco and tobacco-related producer or con-
income for poor farmers and farmworkers, the World sumer imports may be exempt from borrowers' agree-
Bank treats the subject within the context of respond- ments with the Bank to liberalize trade and reduce tar-
ing most effectively to these countries' development iff levels.

doubled between 1970 and 1989, far surpassing (that is, about one to two months' wages) are esti-
population growth, with much of the increase oc- mated to reduce traffic fatalities by about 5 per-
curring in developing regions. cent. Mandatory jail sentences for drunk driving
As with alcohol, abuse of illegal drugs causes have also been weakly effective. The effect of in-
serious health and social problems. Individuals formation campaigns concerning alcohol con-
run the risk of death from infectious, circulatory, sumption has not been quantified, but there is evi-
respiratory, and digestive diseases, as well as from dence that in countries where alcohol is legal but
violence, overdose, and AIDS. Users of cocaine, commercial promotion is not, per capita alcohol
especially in the form of "crack," often suffer consumption is 30 percent lower than elsewhere
acute cardiovascular problems that require emer- and deaths from motor vehicle accidents are 10
gency room services, and the babies of pregnant percent fewer. As a successful alcohol rehabilita-
users of cocaine are often born with severe health tion program in south India demonstrates, com-
problems. munity efforts are generally more effective than
Reliable data on trends and patterns in illegal medical interventions in helping individuals to
drug use are scarce. Users typically fall in the age overcome alcohol dependence, in part because of
group 15-44, although most are in their mid-twen- the importance of sustained encouragement,
ties. In the past decade the production and con- which is more easily offered by the community
sumption of illicit drugs, especially cocaine, ap- than by health service institutions.
pear to have increased considerably worldwide. In Prohibition is a common approach to drug
some developing countries the use of psychoactive abuse. In the United States prohibition as an ap-
drugs such as inhalants is also a serious problem. proach to control of alcohol failed early in this cen-
Taxes and judicial penalties have been used to tury. It appears to be having, at best, limited suc-
discourage alcohol abuse. A 1982 U.S. study indi- cess in controlling use of other drugs now. In other
cated that an increase in the liquor tax of about settings, including Malaysia and Singapore, prohi-
$3.50 (at 1991 prices) per gallon equivalent of pure bition coupled with a mandatory death penalty for
alcohol would lower demand enough to reduce drug trafficking appears to have been more effec-
the incidence of liver cirrhosis by 5 percent in the tive. The successes achieved in controlling the use
short run and perhaps twice as much in the long of alcohol and tobaccothrough restrictions on
run. In industrial countries mandatory license promotion and access, high taxation, rehabilitation
sanctions on drunk drivers are estimated to de- of addicts, and public educationmay also be rele-
crease traffic fatalities by about 10 percent; the im- vant for efforts against other drugs. For alcohol
position of a minimum legal drinking age and the and tobacco, past successes with these measures
assessment of relatively large mandatory fines should spur efforts toward full implementation.

89


--- Page 104 ---
Environmental influences on health compounded by poor hygiene), inadequate gar-
The environment in which people live has a huge bage disposal and drainage, heavy indoor air pol-
influence on their health. For poor people and lution, and crowding. The diseases associated
poor regions, it is the household environment that with poor household environments occur mainly
carries the greatest risks to health. By providing in developing countries, where they account for
information, reducing poverty, and facilitating and nearly 30 percent of the total burden of disease
stimulating private sector action, governments can (Table 4.5). Modest improvements in household
deploy potent mechanisms to improve this envi- burden, mostly as a result of reductions in diar-environments would avert almost a quarter of this

ronment. Potential health gains from these efforts rhea and respiratory infections.
total nearly 80 million DALYs a year in developing
countries. Other government actions, designed to WATER AND SANITATION. About 1.3 billion people
ameliorate or remedy unsafe conditions in the in the developing world lack access to clean and
workplace and pollution of the ambient environ- plentiful water, and nearly 2 billion people lack an
ment, could save 36 million and 8 million DALYs a adequate system for disposing of their feces (Fig-
year, respectively. Finally, feasible reductions in ure 4.6). Feces deposited near homes, contami-
the toll taken by road traffic injuries could avert nated drinking water (sometimes caused by poorly
the loss of 6 million DALYs a year. designed or maintained sewerage systems), fish
The household environment from polluted rivers and coastal waters, and agri-
Poor households generally live in a domestic envi- cultural produce fertilized with human waste are
all health hazards. Water quantity is as important
ronment with high health risks caused by poor as water quality. Washing hands after defecation
sanitation and inadequate water supply (often and before preparing food is of particular impor-

Table 4.5 Estimated burden of disease from poor household environments in demographically
developing countries, 1990, and potential reduction through improved household services
Burden from
these diseases in Reduction Burden averted Burden averted
Principal diseases related countries through feasible interventions populationdeveloping achievable by feasible per 1,000

to poor household (millions of interventions (millions of (DALYs per
environmentsa Relevant environmental problem DALYs per year) (percent)b DALYs per year) year)
Tuberculosis Crowding 46 10 5 1.2
Diarrhea' Sanitation, water supply,
hygiene 99 40 40 9.7
Trachoma Water supply, hygiene 3 30 1 0.3
Tropical clusterd Sanitation, garbage disposal,
vector breeding around
the home 8 30 2 0.5
Intestinal worms Sanitation, water supply,
hygiene 18 40 7 1.7
Respiratory infections Indoor air pollution,
crowding 119 15 18 4.4
Chronic respiratory Indoor air pollution
diseases 41 15 6 1.5
Respiratory tract Indoor air pollution
cancers 4 10 * 0.1
All the above 338 - 79 19.4
* Less than one.
Note: The demographically developing group consists of the demographic regions Sub-Saharan Africa, India, China, Other Asia and islands,
Latin America and the Caribbean, and Middle Eastern crescent.
The diseases listed are those for which there is substantial evidente of a relationship with the household environment and whichare listed in
Appendix B. Examples of excluded conditions are violence related to crowding (because of lack of evidence) and guinea worm infection related to
poor water supply (not listed in Appendix B).
Estimates derived from the product of the efficacy of the interventions and the proportion of the burden of disease thatoccurs among the
exposed. The efficacy estimates assume the implementation of improvements in sanitation, water supply, hygiene, drainage, garbage disposal,
indoor air pollution, and crowding of the kind being made in poor communities in developing countries.
Includes diarrhea, dysentery, cholera, and typhoid.
Bancroftian filariasis.Diseases within the tropical cluster most affected by the domestic environment are schistosomiasis, South American trypanosomiasis, and

Based on very inadequate data on efficacy.
Source: Appendix tables B.2 and B.3 and authors' calculations.

90


--- Page 105 ---
Many people worldwide still lack safe water and adequate sanitation.

Figure 4.6 Population without sanitation or water supply services by demographic region, 1990

Percentage of population without services Millions of people without services
100 80 60 40 20 0 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500
Sub-Saharan
IIIIIIIIIIIUIL Africa

I d
Ilijilh!!! n ia
China
Other Asia
and islands 11111
Latin America
!MII Middle Easternand the Caribbean II

crescent D
Formerly socialist
economies of Europe I
Established market
11 economies

World

Sanitation W Water

Note: Coverage is defined in accordance with local standards.
Source: World Health Organization data.

tance in reducing disease transmission, but with- suspended particulates, smoky houses in Nepal
out abundant water in or near the home, hygiene and Papua New Guinea have peak levels of 10,000
becomes difficult or impossible. The lack of water or more. Rural people in developing countries may
supply and sanitation is the primary reason why receive as much as two-thirds of the global expo-
diseases transmitted via feces are so common in sure to particulates. Women and young children
developing countries. The most important of these suffer the greatest exposure.
diseases, diarrhea and intestinal worm infections, Indoor air pollution contributes to acute respira-
account for an annual burden of 117 million tory infections in young children, chronic lung dis-
DALYs, or 10 percent of the total burden of disease ease and cancer in adults, and adverse pregnancy
in developing countries. In addition, an inade- outcomes (such as stillbirths) for women exposed
quate water supply increases the risk of schis- during pregnancy. Acute respiratory infections,
tosomiasis, skin and eye infections, and guinea principally pneumonia, are the chief killers of
worm disease (Box 4.4). young children, causing a loss of 119 million
INDOOR AIR POLLUTION. Indoor air pollution, DALYs a year, or 10 percent of the total burden of
which World Development Report 1992 identified as disease in developing countries. Data from the
one of the four most critical global environmental Gambia, Nepal, South Africa, the United States,
problems, probably exposes more people world- and Zimbabwe suggest that reducing indoor air
wide to important air pollutants than does pollu- pollution from very high to low levels could poten-
tion in outdoor air. Whereas air in such cities as tially halve the incidence of childhood pneumonia.
Delhi, India, and Xian, China, contains a daily av- Adults can suffer chronic damage to the respira-
erage of 500 micrograms per cubic meter of total tory system from indoor pollution. Studies in
China, India, Nepal, and Papua New Guinea have

91


--- Page 106 ---
Box 4.4 After smallpox: slaying the dragon worm
Guinea worm disease, or dracunculiasis ("infection out of sources of drinking water when they have
with a little dragon"), was endemic from ancient times guinea worm blisters on their legs and to filter their
in a belt stretching from West Africa through the Mid- water with a cloth if they do not have a safe water
dle East to India and Central Asia. It has been suc- source.
cessfully eliminated from the Central Asian republics Eradication of dracunculiasis by the end of 1995 has
and from Iran, where the last case was seen in the been adopted as an international goal. Pakistan may
1970s, and it has spontaneously disappeared from have achieved eradication in 1992, and Cameroon, In-
most of the Middle East and from several African coun- dia, and Senegal may do so in 1993. Between 1987 and
tries, such as the Gambia and Guinea. There are now 1992 cases reported per year fell from 653,000 to
probably fewer than a million cases worldwide. 201,000 in Nigeria, from 180,000 to 33,000 in Ghana,
The disease does not kill people, but it causes pain and from 17,000 to 900 in India. In general, these ad-
and disability to its victims for several weeks in the vances have been achieved through "vertical" pro-
year as the 60-centimeter-long female worm emerges gramsthat is, programs specific to dracunculiasis.
from a blister, usually on the leg. In some cases the The eradication of the disease from the poor, sparsely
disability is permanent. The worms usually emerge in populated endemic countries in West Africa will, how-
the early rainy season, the time when the incapacitated ever, require integrated programs in which the re-
victims would otherwise be planting and weeding their sources available for guinea worm control are shared
crops. Children whose parents are stricken by guinea with other activities, such as immunization. A by-prod-
worm are more likely to be malnourished in the follow- uct of guinea worm eradication will be community-
ing year. based surveillance systems, which can be used by com-
Because dracunculiasis can only be caught by drink- munities to monitor and improve their own health and
ing infected water, improving the water supply is an by public health workers to combat other diseases,
important preventive measure. Health education is such as polio.
also essential. Villagers need to be persuaded to stay

shown that up to half of adult women (few of ford the household improvements, including bet-
whom smoke) suffer from chronic lung and heart ter water and sanitation services, that they desire.
diseases. Nonsmoking Chinese women exposed to As people acquire more education, their hygiene
indoor coal smoke (which is especially harmful) improves, and their responsiveness to public in-
have a risk of lung cancer similar to that of men formation programs increases. To support house-
who smoke lightly. Comprehensive improvement holds' efforts, governments have an important
in indoor air quality in the developing countries role in setting and enforcing appropriate environ-
might avert a loss of 24 million DALYs each year mental standards and disseminating information
by reducing the burden of acute respiratory infec- on, for example, the health benefits of good hy-
tions and chronic respiratory diseases by 15 per- giene and the effects of exposure (especially of
cent and of respiratory tract cancers by 10 percent babies) to smoke. Governments should also con-
(Table 4.5). centrate on strengthening security of tenure
HousiNG. In many cities 30 to 60 percent of the (which is essential for encouraging households to
population live in overcrowded and deteriorating invest in their housing) and on establishing a legal,
shanties, tenements, and boardinghouses. Crowd- regulatory, and administrative framework that fa-
ing is associated with increased airborne infection cilitates responsive, accountable, and efficient pro-
and personal violence. Poor structures lead to vision, often by private suppliers, of services that
greater exposure to heat, cold, noise, dust, rain, people want and are willing to pay for. And they
insects, and rodents. And housing locations ate should refrain from supplying services directly
often unhealthy because of, for example, poor and from granting indiscriminate, widespread
drainage. subsidies. Such subsidies are often captured by
wealthier consumers, go for improvements that
POLICIES FOR IMPROVING THE HOUSEHOLD ENVI- households would make anyway, or encourage
RONMENT. The most powerful forces for reducing consumption patterns that are detrimental to
domestic risks to health are rising incomes and health. (For example, subsidies for coal used in
increased education for household members. cooking lead to more indoor air pollution than
Higher incomes make it possible for people to af- would be the case with cleaner liquid or gas fuels.)
92


--- Page 107 ---
Past experience in water and sanitation illus- poorer class that receives little or no service; and a
trates the limitations of direct government provi- ripe environment for political patronage.
sion of household services. Despite technical prog- The poor usually miss out on both services and
ress in developing affordable engineering solu- subsidies. They suffer the substantial health con-
tions to the problems of water, sanitation, drain- sequences described in Table 4.5 and pay high
age, and housing, the delivery and maintenance of prices for inadequate services. In Lima poor peo-
these services, especially by governments, have ple may pay $3 for a cubic meter of contaminated
been disappointing. At the end of the Interna- water collected by bucket from a private vendor,
tional Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation De- while the middle class pays 30 cents per cubic me-
cade (the 1980s), most people in the poorer regions ter for treated water provided on tap in their
of the world still lacked sanitation, and the num- houses by the publicly subsidized water company.
ber of urban residents without water had not been Broadly based subsidies are not necessary for
reduced. ensuring access to safe water and sanitation. In
Supply-side failures are largely caused by ineffi- most urban communities households are willing to
cient and unresponsive public sector monopolies pay the full costs of water service and often the full
which, in the water sector, typically provide subsi- cost of sanitation services. Willingness to pay for
dized services at between one-third and two-thirds water may be high in rural areas as well, but what
of the full economic cost. Massive public invest- people can afford is commonly not enough to
ments, often supported by the donor community cover the high costs of supply. Subsidy may be
and the World Bank, have been made in public or justified in such situations. But the rationale
quasi-public agencies responsible for the delivery should be primarily one of redistribution: a society
and maintenance of household services. The net re- may choose to provide cheap water or other ser-
sult has often been bloated public agencies with low vices to the poor as one of many alternative means
accountability to their customers and few incen- of improving their welfare. Health benefits alone
tives for improving efficiency; a middle class that is do not generally provide a rationale for public sub-
increasingly well served with subsidized services; a - sidy of water and sanitation (see Box 4.5).

Box 4.5 The costs and benefits of investments in water supply and sanitation
People want safe water and good sanitation and are discharge. The cost of water and sanitation services can
willing to pay for these services, especially for plentiful range from $15 per person per year for simple rural
water in or very near the home. Improvements in wa- systems to $200 for full-fledged urban systems. Poor
ter supply raise productivity through savings in the households cannot afford the design standards of in-
fuel used to boil polluted water and, even more impor- dustrial countries, but such standards are not neces-
tant, through the time and energy savings for women sary on health grounds. Completely eliminating fecal
who have to collect water from distant sources. Provi- bacteria requires expensive chlorination, but low con-
sion of public handpumps in Imo State, Nigeria, re- centrations present little health hazard and should be
duced the median time that each household spent on tolerated.
water collection in the dry season from six hours a day If households pay the total cost of water and sanita-
to forty-five minutes. In Lesotho, not an especially dry tion services because of the productivity and amenity
country, the benefits in time saved alone are sufficient benefits, substantial health gains are an added bonus
to justify investments in rural water supply. Sanitation achieved at no cost per DALY gained. When willing-
improvements have high amenity value, making possi- ness to pay is much less than costs, it is usually a mis-
ble a cleaner and more pleasant environment. take to justify subsidies on the basis of health benefits
The costs of water supply and sanitation services alone. First, such subsidies compromise the demand-
vary by technology, population density, the hydrologic driven approach to service provision (that is, provision
and geologic environment, and design standards..De- of services that people want and are willing to pay for);
sign standards for water supply can range from one lack of accountability and inefficiency are the inevitable
handpump per 250 people, supplying 20 liters per per- consequences. And second, if publicly financed invest-
son per day, to multiple-tap in-house connections that ments in these services are being considered for health
supply several hundred liters of fully treated water per reasons, it should be noted that such investments gen-
person per day. Design standards for sanitation can erally cost more per DALY gained than other health
vary from a pit latrine to flush toilets connected to a interventions recommended in this Report.
sewerage system, with downstream treatment prior to

93


--- Page 108 ---
Box 4.6 Environmental and household control of mosquito vectors
Diseases transmitted by insect vectors account for Polystyrene beads
losses of 44 million DALYs worldwide each year (35
million in Sub-Saharan Africa), or 3 percent of the The application of polystyrene beads to pit latrines has
world burden (12 percent in Sub-Saharan Africa). Al- proved successful in reducing the breeding of Culex
though widespread application of insecticides is help- mosquitoes and the transmission of filariasis. The
ing to control river blindness in West Africa (see Box beads form a floating layer that discourages egg laying
1.1) and Chagas' disease in South America, it is no and suffocates any mosquito larvae that do hatch. In
longer the mainstay of vector control against other dis- the town of Makunduchi (population 12,000) in
eases. Emphasis has shifted to a range of targeted bio- Zanzibar, Tanzania, a combination of polystyrene-bead
logical, physical, and behavioral approaches supported application and mass drug treatment of the population
by insecticides when necessary. Two examples are between January 1988 and June 1989 virtually elimi-
given here. nated biting by infective mosquitoes, and the propor-
Impregnated bednets tion of people infected by filariasis fell from 50 to 10
percent. By January 1993 the proportion of people in-
fected had fallen to 3 percent. The polystyrene bead
Bednets impregnated with a pyrethroid insecticide of layers remained intact and effective for several years
low mammalian toxicity form lethal traps for mosqui- and were disrupted only by exceptional flooding.
toes attracted by the carbon dioxide and body odor In Zanzibar Town researchers are studying whether
emitted by the occupants. In Sichuan Province, China, it is better to make beads freely available so that house-
up to 2.25 million netsalready owned by nearly all holders can apply them to their own pits or to have
householdershave been treated each year since 1987. trained teams identify and treat all pits requiring treat-
If nothing else, the cost is much lower than spraying ment. In Dar es Salaam polystyrene beads are being
the same houses with DDT. In Emei County, Sichuan, used to control Culex nuisance biting and thereby in-
the number of malaria cases had been steady at about crease public acceptance of house spraying against the
4,000 between 1980 and 1986. After bednet treatment Anopheles vectors of malaria. The effectiveness of the
began, the number declined steadily, to 352 in 1991. In Culex control measures is evidenced by declining sales
the Gambia a combination of net treatment and chemo- of mosquito coils in local shops. In Madras, India, poly-
prophylaxis, carried out by primary health care person- styrene beads are being applied to water tanks to con-
nel, reduced overall child mortality by 63 percent. trol the local vectors of malaria and dengue; the quality
of the water is not affected.

An important policy issue, on which there is an sanitation servicesas in urban areasthe de-
apparent tension between health objectives and mand for improved sanitation has invariably risen
the demand-driven approach advocated here and automatically as the demand for water services is
in World Development Report 1992, concerns the se- satisfied. Second, where the demand-driven ap-
quencing and packaging of investments in water proach has not been followed, service provision
and sanitation. Given the patterns of household has almost always been characterized by ineffi-
choice, a demand-driven approach will usually ciency and lack of accountability. For the provision
mean that provision of water supply services pre- of water supply and wastewater collection ser-
cedes that of sanitation services. It is frequently vices, therefore, the demand-driven approach
argued that this sequence would produce few should be compromised only in rare
health benefits because rapid increases in water circumstances.
use can overwhelm existing waste disposal capac- Households are less willing to pay for the cost of
ity and because health benefits are maximized only trunk sewers and treatment of excreta and waste-
when households utilize both better water and water. Because these investments benefit the
better sanitation services. These arguments are whole community and are important for environ-
plausible, but experiences in many countries sug- mental quality and health, there is potentially a
gest that close adherence to the demand-driven case for using public funds to finance them. A few
approach remains appropriate in most places, in- other situations may also justify direct government
cluding low-income settings. First, where rapid in- action or subsidies. Householders tend to under-
crease in water use is likely to cause environmental value such investments as areawide pollution
and health problems in the absence of household abatement, vector control involving actions within

94


--- Page 109 ---
households (see Box 4.6), and research and devel- The occupational environment
opment. There may thus be grounds for public
subsidy or other interventions in these areas. It Many women work in the home and thus suffer
will often be difficult to disentangle environmental disproportionately from the health risks in the
and health benefits, and judgments will be neces- household environment just described. Both men
sary concerning the use of public funds. and women may also encounter health risks in
Large institutional and cultural shifts are needed workplaces outside the home. A burden of 36 mil-
to create an efficient system for allocating scarce lion DALYs, or 3 percent of the global burden of
public and private resources to improve the house- disease, is caused each year by preventable inju-
hold environment. Many developing countries ries and deaths in high-risk occupations and by
have inheritedand then elaborated onthe for- chronic illness stemming from exposure to toxic
mer colonial powers' worst traditions of public chemicals, noise, stress, and physically debilitat-
sector inertia and professional inflexibility. En- ing work patterns (Table 4.6).
couragingly, however, private sector involvement The International Labour Office has estimated
is increasing rapidly in both industrial and devel- that the cost of occupational injuries and associ-
oping countries. SODECI, the privately run utility ated production losses in a sample of industrial
in Abidjan, is considered one of the best-run water countries is between 1 and 4 percent of GNP. In
companies in Africa. EMOS, the utility that serves developing countries this proportion is likely to be
Santiago, has used private sector contracts for greater because accident rates tend to be higher.
such functions as meter reading, pipe mainte- Rates of fatal occupational injuries among con-
nance, billing, and vehicle leasing and is one of the struction workers, for example, are more than ten
most efficient utilities in Latin America. The role of times higher in Kenya and Thailand than in Fin-
community organizations and NGOs may also be land. Agriculture, which employs more than half
significant, particularly in drainage and sanitation of all adults in most developing countries, is
improvements. In cities such as Karachi and São among the world's most dangerous occupations.
Paulo, community groups have significantly accel- Not only do agricultural workers suffer injuries,
erated the provision of low-cost water supply and but they are also exposed to disease-carrying ani-
sanitation services to poor households, as well as mals and to poisonous agrochemicals. Health risks
helping to maintain and manage local services. are high in other sectors as well. Miners, construc-

Table 4.6 Estimated global burden of disease from selected environmental threats, 1990, and
potential worldwide reductions through environmental interventions
Burden from these Reduction achievablethrough feasiblefeasible interventionsBurden averted byBurden averted per

Type of environment and diseases (millions of interventionsb (millions of DALYs 1,000 population
principal related diseases' DALYs per year) (percent) per year) (DALYs per year)
Occupational 318 - 36 7.1
Cancers 79 5 4 0.8
Neuropsychiatric 93 5 5 0.9
Chronic respiratory 47 5 2 0.5
Musculoskeletal 18 50 9 1.8
Unintentional injury 81r 20 16 3.1
Urban air 170 - 8 1.7
Respiratory infections 123 5 6 1.2
Chronic respiratory 47 5 2 0.5
Road transport (motor
vehicle injuries) 32 20 6 1.2
Alltheabove 473' - 50 10.0
The diseases shown are those for which there is substantial evidence of a relationship with the particular environment and which are listed in
Appendix B.Estimates derived from the product of the efficacy of the interventions and the proportion of the global burden of disease that occurs among
the exposed. All estimates of efficacy are speculative and assume the implementation of known, feasible, and affordable interventions in the
circumstances encountered in developing countries.
Computed by subtracting motor vehicle injuries (32 million DALY5) from all unintentional injuries (113 million DALY5).
Adjusted for double counting.
Source: Appendix tables B.2 and B.3 and authors' calculations.

95


--- Page 110 ---
tion workers, migrant workers, and child laborers able. Under the assumption that achievable reduc-
all suffer increased risk of disease because of their tions in urban air pollution can prevent 5 percent
occupations. Small workplaces may have espe- of all infectious and chronic respiratory disease,
cially low standards of safety, yet such risks are these reductions could avert a burden of 8 million
often overlooked by government agencies and DALYs each year, or 0.6 percent of the global bur-
trade unions alike. A survey of companies in den of disease (Table 4.6). Local impacts and the
Samud Prakhan, Thailand, found that smaller effects on especially vulnerable groups can be
plants, with fewer than fifty workers, had substan- much greater (Box 4.7).
tially lower levels of sanitation, health services, Lead poisons many systems in the body and is
safety provisions, and environmental control mea- particularly dangerous to children's developing
sures than larger enterprises. Workers suffered brains and nervous systems. Airborne lead con-
more than twice as much noise and a third more centrations are high in polluted urban environ-
lead fumes and vapors. And they experienced sig- ments, where lead comes mainly from the exhaust
nificant work-related health problems: 22 percent of vehicles burning leaded gasoline. Elevated lead
had lead poisoning or absorption, 27 percent had levels in children have been associated with im-
upper respiratory symptoms, and 6 percent had paired neuropsychologic development as mea-
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, even sured by loss of IQ, poor school performance, and
though most workers were below age 30. behavioral difficulties.
Alleviating occupational risk depends on safety
education for workers and managers, use of ap- WATER POLLUTION. Newly industrialized coun-
propriate equipment and technology, and sound tries, as well as many industrial countries, have
management practices. Governments can encour- polluted or are polluting their rivers, lakes, and
age these initiatives through legislation and regu- coastal waters with a variety of chemical and bio-
lation, financial incentives, investment in educa- logical wastes of both industrial and domestic ori-
tion, and research and development. Where gin. The practice of letting raw wastewater from
worker organizations are strong, they have played industry and residential areas flow into rivers or
a major role in identifying and reducing occupa- the sea is common but unwise. Investment in pre-
tional risks. Tripartite agreements between venting it may be justified because of the possibly
workers, employers, and governments can lead to severe local health consequences (as illustrated in
speedy progress. Box 4.8) and because generalized water pollution,
The ambient environment by reducing the number of water sources available
for domestic supply, can foreclose cost-effective
Radiation and pollution of air and water are addi- options for responding to demand for domestic
tional health hazards. Since there is no market for services.
clean air and water, government action is fre-
quently justified. RADIATION. Individuals are exposed to natural
background ionizing radiation and to radiation
AIR POLLUTION. Many cities suffer from air p01- used for medical and dental diagnosis. Only a tiny
lution caused by industry, power plants, road amount of additional radiation comes from safely
transport, and domestic use of coal. About 1.3 bil- operated nuclear power stations or other installa-
lion urban residents worldwide are exposed to air tions (roughly one-thousandth of the background
pollution levels above recommended limits. Air dose for those living within 50 kilometers of a nu-
quality in the established market economies has clear power station). Current evidence suggests
generally improved in the past two decades. But in that the health effects of this radiation on the gen-
many developing countries and in the formerly so- eral population are extremely small or nonexistent.
cialist economies, air quality has deteriorated be- Accidents and occupational risks to workers in nu-
cause of rising industrial activity, increasing power clear industries and to miners of radioactive ores,
generation, and the congestion of streets with however, are different matters. The consequences
poorly maintained motor vehicles that use leaded of the nuclear power plant accident at Chernobyl,
fuel. Ukraine, in 1986 have yet to be fully documented
Air pollution damages the human respiratory but are undoubtedly large. (The risk of such acci-
and cardiorespiratory systems in various ways. dents is particularly high in the formerly socialist
The elderly, children, smokers, and those with economies because of their large number of poorly
chronic respiratory difficulties are most vulner- designed nuclear facilities.) Standards and safe-

96


--- Page 111 ---
Box 4.7 Air pollution and health in Central Europe

Contrary to expectations, public ownership and cen- mortality of 1 percent for every 10 micrograms per cu-
trally planned economies have neither controlled poi- bic meter of particulates and sulfur dioxide. These esti-
lution nor brought health benefits to the populations of mates suggest air pollution causes up to 3 percent of
the formerly socialist economies. The countries of this total mortality in the Czech Republic and is responsible
region face a variety of serious environmental health for roughly 9 percent in the gap in mortality rates be-
threats, of which the greatest are particulates and gases tween the Czech Republic and Western Europe. Simi-
in air, lead in air and soil, and nitrates and metals in lar estimates have been obtained for Silesia in Poland.
water. A substantial gap in health status between these The effect of air pollution on mortality is greater for
countries and those of Western Europe has opened up certain causes of death in specific age groups. A recent
since the early 1960s: life expectancy is roughly five study of postneonatal respiratory mortality showed a
years shorter in the formerly socialist economies, and rate 2.4 times higher in the most polluted districts of
mortality rates in middle-aged males are roughly the Czech Republic than in the least polluted, after
double. There has been considerable speculation adjusting for a battery of socioeconomic factors. An
among scientists and the public in Central Europe increase in particulates of 25 micrograms per cubic me-
about how much of this health gap is attributable to ter was associated with an increase in postneonatal res-
environmental pollution. piratory mortality of 58 percent.
Air pollution is the environmental factor that has had The contribution of air pollution to morbidity in the
the greatest negative effect on health in Central Eu- Czech Republic is likely to be considerably greater than
rope. Of the many air pollution 'hotspots" through- the effect on mortality and to have larger economic
out the region, the worst-affected area is the 'Black consequences through health expenditures, lost
Triangle," which covers northern Bohemia and Mo- schooling, and lost productivity. Children in heavily
ravia, Silesia, and Saxony and has a population of polluted areas may suffer twice the rates of respiratory
roughly 6.5 million. In August 1991 the three govern- morbidity of those in clean areas. Overall, air pollution
ments involvedthe Czech Republic, Germany, and may be responsible for up to one-quarter of all respira-
Polandand the Commission of the European Com- tory morbidity in Czech children.
munities formed a Working Group for Neighbourly "Hotspots" of lead exposure exist throughout the
Cooperation on Environmental Issues to deal with the formerly socialist economies. Average blood levels of
extremely high levels of air pollutants in the area. more than 25 micrograms per deciliter in children have
The overall effect of air pollution on mortality in the been reported in, for example, Pribram, Czech Repub-
I Czech Republic has been estimated using data on the lic, and Katowice, Poland. In comparison with normal
distribution of the population, the ambient levels of levels, these higher levels could double the proportion
particulates and sulfur dioxide, and the relationship of children requiring special education and halve the
between excess mortality and pollution. This relation- proportion in the exceptionally gifted group (IQ greater
ship is derived from studies in Canada, the United than 130).
Kingdom, and the United States that indicate excess

guards against accidents and occupational hazards appropriate coping strategies) and healthier. The
have been greatly improved, but risks may re- best preparation at the national level for these un-
main, and continued research and vigilance are certain future events is therefore to pursue sound
required. Putative links of certain cancers with ex- economic and health policies in the medium term.
posure to radon in houses and with electromagne-
tic fields created by high-voltage cables are being IMPROVING THE AMBIENT ENVIRONMENT. Improv-
investigated in several industrial countries. ing health is only one of several reasons why soci-
eties may choose to invest in a cleaner environ-
GLOBAL THREATS. Depletion of the atmospheric ment. The policies and actions needed to clean up
ozone layer and global warming pose potential the air in a given city or area will depend on the
threats of unknown magnitude to health. Internã- origins of the pollution at that site. In most cities in
tional agreements are limiting or will limit the re- developing countries motor vehicles are a signifi-
lease of chlorine compounds that can harm the cant source of air pollution and need to be specifi-
ozone layer and of the greenhouse gases that con- cally targeted. A few cities in the developing
tribute to global warming. The societies that will world, among them Bangkok and Mexico City, are
suffer least from these global changes are those pursuing systematic policies to reduce motor vehi-
that are wealthier (and therefore able to invest in cle emissions, and their experience will be valuable

97


--- Page 112 ---
Box 4.8 Pollution in Japan: prevention would have been better and cheaper than cure
In the 1950s and 1960s Japan experienced a period of in 1956 patients with a severe neurological affliction,
rapid industrialization and economic growth, hut little later to be called Minamata disease, were observed. In
attention was paid to the environmental consequences. 1968, following extensive research, the disease was
The result was high levels of pollutants in the air, wa- linked to the ingestion of seafood containing high con-
ter, and soil in some areas and several infamous out- centrations of methyl mercury, a compound dis-
breaks of disease. Strong corrective action was taken in charged into Minamata Bay by the Chisso Corporation
the 1970s and 1980s to redress the severest problems. as a by-product of the manufacture of acetaldehyde.
Three conclusions emerge from the examples given be- The discharge of methyl mercury peaked in 1959; it
low: allowing the release of toxic substances into the ended in 1968 when the company ceased production of
environment can lead to serious health consequences acetaldehyde, but by then the floor of the bay and its
and economic losses; prevention, as Japan is now do- aquatic life had become heavily contaminated. Starting
ing, is less costly than cleaning up; and taking correc- in 1974, 1.5 million cubic meters of polluted sediment
tive action now is less costly than allowing problems to were dredged and removed.
persist. By 1991, 2,248 people (1,004 of whom had died) had
been certified as suffering from Minamata disease and
Case 1: sulfur dioxide in the air were eligible for compensation. An additional 2,000
people are pursuing claims for compensation. Had dis-
Between 1956 and 1973 one of Japan's largest petro- charge of mercury continued, the estimated annual
chemical complexes was constructed at Yokkaichi City. costs of the damage, including patient treatment and
By 1960 air pollution was causing local concern, and by compensation, sediment dredging, and losses to fish-
1963 one-hour average sulfur dioxide levels exceeded eries, would have been $97 million a year. If
2,800 micrograms per cubic meter, far above WHO's acetaldehyde production had continued, pollution
suggested maximum of 350 micrograms per cubic me- abatement through in-plant waste recycling would
ter. In 1967 local residents successfully sued six com- have cost only $1 million a year.
panies, claiming medical costs and compensation for
lost income. Seven percent of the total population of Case 3: cadmium in the soil
the district were certified to have been medically af-
fected by ambient air pollution. Increasingly stringent In the late 1940s a disease characterized by extreme
pollution measures were introduced starting in 1970, generalized pain, kidney damage, and loss of bone
and by 1976 sulfur dioxide levels were in compliance strength appeared in the Jinzu River Basin. The dis-
with local standards. ease, which primarily afflicted women, was called itai-
Air pollution control costs since 1971including itai (''It hurts, it hurts!'') after the cries of the sufferers.
technical installations and their operation, monitoring, Two decades of research led, in 1968, to the conclusion
and creation of environmental buffer zoneshave been that the cause was chronic cadmium poisoning, which
$114 million a year. Without this investment, however, was traced to the effluent from the Mitsui Mining and
medical expenses and compensation would have been Smelting Company located in the upper reaches of the
more than $160 million a year. basin. The route for the cadmium poisoning was from
river water to irrigation water to soil to rice. By 1991,
Case 2: mercury in the water 129 people had been certified as itai-itai sufferers, and
116 of them had died.
At the turn of the century Minamata was a scenic A major program of soil restoration was initiated in
coastal town of 12,000 people who made their living 1979. By 1992, 36 percent of the contaminated area of
from wood products, oranges, and fish. In 1908 a fertil- 1,500 hectares had been treated. Had the further re-
izer plant was established that eventually became the lease of cadmium not been prevented, the annual costs
Chisso Corporation, one of Japan's largest manufac- from medical compensation, agricultural losses, and
turers of chemicals. By the 1920s compensation for soil restoration would have been $19 million a year. The
damage to fisheries had already become an issue, and costs of prevention were $5 million a year.

in designing the next generation of programs. Suc- lead levels in gasoline and are using price differen-
cessful policies include incentives and regulations tials to encourage consumers to switch to lead-free
to improve fuel quality, enhance engine perfor- products. Lead concentrations in the air have
mance and maintenance, and reduce traffic vol- fallen by 50 percent or more in response to these
ume. Most industrial countries and an increasing measures, and average blood lead levels in urban
number of developing countries have set limits on areas have also declined substantially.

98


--- Page 113 ---
Clean technologies and practices can reduce lo- the eradication of smallpox, and one great medical
cal industrial pollution levels even as output ex- tragedy, AIDS. Unknown prior to 1981, AIDS now
pands. To encourage adoption of such technolo- dominates public health programs and health ser-
gies, governments need to pursue policies that vices in several countries and may come to domi-
improve the efficiency with which energy is used. nate in many more. The human immunodeficiency
Such policies include the elimination of subsidies virus (HIV) that causes AIDS is transmitted
for power generation and, in many countries, for through sexual intercourse. Like other STDs, it can
vehicle fuels and coal. Efficient reforms help re- also be transmitted by contact with contaminated
duce pollution while raising a country's economic blood (notably from transfusions) and from
output. Policy options are described in full in World mother to child during the perinatal period. Ca-
Development Report 1992. sual transmission from person to person does not
occur. In developing countries more than 85 per-
The road transport environment cent of infections occur through heterosexual in-
tercourse. There is no cure, and discovery of a
Motor vehicle crashes are responsible for an in- vaccine is unlikely before 2000. Action is needed
creasing burden of injury and death in developing now to combat the spread of the disease.
countries. Each year throughout the world road
traffic injuries cause a loss of 32 million DALYs, or Why AIDS is a special case
more than 2 percent of the global burden of dis-
ease (Table 4.6). Men suffer roughly twice the bur- AIDS deserves special attention because failure to
den from road traffic injuries as women. The control the epidemic at an early stage will result in
young and the old are particularly vulnerable, as far more damaging and costly consequences in the
are drivers of nonmotorized vehicles and pedes- future.
trians. The number of road fatalities and injuries in The HIV epidemic is bad and is getting worse. An
developing countries is rising rapidly with urban- estimated 9 million people worldwide carried the
ization and growth in the volume of traffic. Road HIV virus in 1990; as many as 26 million could be
fatalities in Africa increased fourfold between 1968 infected by 2000, according to WHO estimates (see
and 1988, whereas in Europe they declined by Table 1.3 in Chapter 1). AIDS will then contribute
more than 20 percent during the same period. about 3.3 percent to the global burden of disease,
A multipronged approach to road safety can re- and 1.8 million people will die of AIDS each year.
duce crashes at reasonable cost. Public investment Given the short time it takes infection rates to
in improved road infrastructure and highway op- double in many developing countries and the
eration systems, remedial action at known "black- rapid spread of the disease to countries that previ-
spots" with high accident rates, and expanded ously had low numbers of infections, total figures
public transport systems all make a difference. in 2000 may be two or three times higher than the
Legislation, financial incentives, and programs of above projections.
road safety education can improve driver behav- More than 80 percent of those infected lived in
ior, reduce traffic speeds, promote use of seat developing countries in 1990; by 2000 this will in-
belts, improve vehicle safety, and reduce drunk crease to an estimated 95 percent. In Thailand one
driving. The insurance and legal liability systems in fifty adults is infected. In Sub-Saharan African
may also offer powerful incentives for road safety. one in forty adults is already infected, and in cer-
A carefully designed package of measures such as tain cities of Africa the prevalence of infection is as
those mentioned above can, over time, reduce high as one in three. In some of these high-preva-
road fatalities and injuries by at least one-fifth, lence communities AIDS is already starting to re-
thus preventing the loss of at least 6 million verse long-term declines in child mortality.
DALYs a year worldwide (Table 4.6). Several coun-
tries, including Kenya and Malaysia, have set The cost-effectiveness of interventions drops
more ambitious targets for reductions in deaths sharply when infections cross from high-risk groups to
and injuries over the next decade. the general population. Since there is no vaccine or
cure for AIDS, primary prevention is the only way
AIDS: a threat to development to fight the disease. In the absence of adequate
preventive action, AIDS spreads rapidly in the
Historians will look back on the latter half of this "core" groups (such as sex workers and their cli-
century as having had one great medical triumph, ents), followed by a slower and then accelerating

99


--- Page 114 ---
Early intervention against AIDS prevents spread of mand for health care for AIDS patients will crowd
the disease to the general population. out the needs of other patients. Furthermore, the
number of tuberculosis cases is increasing dramati-
cally as a direct result of HIV, and the presence of
Figure 4.7 Simulated AIDS epidemicin a Sub-Saharan African country HIV worsens problems with other sexually trans-
mitted diseases. (STDs both facilitate HIV trans-
mission and are harder to treat in HIV-infected
AIDS cases per 1,000 individuals.)
sexually active population Prevention of AIDS involves sensitive and politi-
100 cally charged issues. Preventing HIV infection often
necessitates working with socially marginalized
groups (including, in many cultures, homosex-
80 uals), and with people who pursue illegal activities
such as drug use or prostitution. In addition, an
effective preventive program must reach out to in-
60 A form young people frankly about sexual practices
Spread and risks. These activities offer little political bene-
generalintopopulation fit and may be highly controversial. Strong gov-
40 +-.- ernment will and commitment are therefore essen-
tial to effective programs, the more so because the
seven-to-ten-year lag between HIV infection and
20 the development of AIDS makes it tempting for
Spreadgroups countries and individuals to put off dealing with
core through AIDS issues until it is too late to avert a wide-
0 spread epidemic.
0 20 40 60 80 100Prevention: an absolute necessity
Time from start of epidemic
(years) A combination of strategies, backed up with ade-
Source: Adapted from Potts, Anderson, and Boily 1991. quate resources, is required for stemming the
spread of AIDS. Crucial elements in these strate-
gies are providing information on how to avoid
spread in the general population (Figure 4.7). infection, promoting condom use, treating other
Early and effective targeting of HIV interventions sexually transmitted diseases, and reducing blood-
is critical because these interventions diminish in borne transmission. These measures are especially
cost-effectiveness as the infection moves out of the cost-effective when targeted at the relatively few
high-risk, high-transmission core groups. The people in the core groups. Unless effective preven-
large number of new sexual contacts in the core tive action is taken, the number of new HIV infec-
groups means that each HIV case avoided in this tions can be expected to grow, especially in parts
group can avert more than ten times as many addi- of Asia. But a comprehensive AIDS prevention
tional infections as can a case avoided in thegen- program could check the growth of the disease
(Figure 4.8).
eral population. Current annual worldwide expenditure on
AIDS has catastrophically costly consequences. AIDS prevention is about $1.5 billion a year. Per-
AIDS, affecting as it does mainly people in the haps less than $200 million of this is spent in devel-
economically productive adult years, has powerful oping countries, where 85 percent of all infections
negative economic effects on households, produc- occur. Among developing countries Thailand
tive enterprises, and countries (see Box 1.2 in spends the most for AIDS prevention, with 1992
Chapter 1). Because so many of its victims are spending of $45 million, more than 75 percent of
heads of households or parents, AIDS devastates which was from government funds. Total AIDS
families. Heavily infected countries have found spending on prevention in all Sub-Saharan Africa
their health systems burdened with costly cases of was only twice this amount, with a mere 10 per-
AIDS-related opportunistic infections. If the AIDS cent from government funds. A recent study for
epidemic continues unchecked, the accelerated de- WHO's Global Program on AIDS suggested that

100


--- Page 115 ---
comprehensive AIDS and STD prevention services Effective prevention can markedly slow the rate of
for all developing countries would cost $1.5 billion new infection with HIV
to $2.9 billion a year. This is ten to fifteen times
current spending, but it would yield enormous Figure 4.8 Trends in new HIV infections
benefits. The estimated number of new adult HIV under alternative assumptions, 1990-2000:
infections averted by such spending between 1993 Sub-Saharan Africa and Asia
and 2000 would be about 9.5 million-4.2 million
in Africa, 4.2 million in Asia, and 1.1 million in
Latin America. Sub-Saharan Africa

Groups to be targeted New infections per year (millions)
3
Preventive efforts must reach populations with di-
verse needs: people at particularly high risk of ac-
quiring and transmitting HIV infection (core
groups), young people, and women. Preventive
programs for the population at large are less cost- case
effective than targeted programs but are needed to
increase awareness and understanding of AIDS
and STDs, reduce discrimination against infected Optimistic case
persons, and prepare the way for subsequent in- 0
terventions when levels of infection rise. Monog- 1990 1995 2001)
amy might be encouraged as part of public infor-
mation efforts to curb the spread of HIV, but it
cannot be the only strategy; even where it is the Asia
societal norm, not all individuals adhere.
High-risk groups may include sex workers, mi- New infections per year (millions)
grants, members of the military, truck drivers, and 4
drug users who share needles. For these groups, Worstd
prevention of sexual transmission essentially
means education on safer sex, promotion of con-
dom use, and prevention and treatment of STDs. 2
It is important not simply to provide information
on condoms but also to ensure their availability
and to empower members of the core group, espe- I
cially female sex workers, to use them. Brothel
managers and clients must also be persuaded of
the need to change their behavior; experience from 1990 1995 2000
Zaire and other countries shows that promotion of
condoms to male clients substantially improves
the success of programs targeted at sex workers.
Areas of high STD prevalence warrant aggressive Note: Asia includes China, India, and Other Asia and
attempts to control STDs through condom promo- islands.
Source: World Health Organization and World Bank data.
tion, case management and counseling, notifica-
tion of partners, and surveillance. These can be
provided through a wide spectrum of health insti-
tutions such as family planning clinics and pri-
mary health centers. particularly important because men so often domi-
Young people, both in and out of school, need nate the sexual relationship. The curriculum
comprehensive education on reproduction and re- should be sensitive to local cultural conditions but
productive health issues. To be most effective, ed- should provide explicit, honest explanations of
ucation must begin before the onset of sexual ac- sexuality, gender issues, safe sexual practices,
tivity (ages 12-14 in many countries) and must be STDs and HIV, safe motherhood, and family plan-
targeted at boys as well as girls. Reaching boys is ning. All potential behavioral choices, including

101


--- Page 116 ---
abstinence and condom use, should be presented. PROVIDING INFORMATION. Informing people
There is no evidence to support the objection that about the steps they can take to protect themselves
providing sex education encourages promiscuity. against HIV infection is central to any strategy for
In societies in which it is unacceptable for teachers combating AIDS. Individuals need to know that
to provide sex education, the task can be delegated the risk of infection can be minimized by reducing
to qualified voluntary groups. the number of new sexual partners they have, by
Women are biologically more susceptible to ac- choosing partners of lowest risk, by avoidingcon-
quiring HIV infection through heterosexual inter- tact with contaminated blood, by using condoms
course than are men, and social factors often add and refraining from risky sexual practices such as
to the risks. In Uganda, for example, more than 60 anal sex, and by avoiding or seeking treatment for
percent of infected persons are women. Preventive cofactors such as STDs. Intravenous drug users
efforts addressed to women, especially those of can lower their risks by using clean needles. In
childbearing age, can protect both maternal and communities where the HIV virus is present, peo-
child health. In many African countries AIDS and ple should be aware that unprotected sex is safe
HIV-related illnesses are already among the top only with a person known unequivocally to be un-
ten causes of childhood mortality. At present there infectedfor example, someone who has not yet
is no way to prevent HIV transmission from an been sexually active and has no other risk factors
infected woman to her fetus; about 30 percent of (such as intravenous drug use or transfusion) or
the babies of infected women are born with the who has recently undergone HIV testing and has
infection. Most such babies survive their first year been found to be uninfected.
but succumb to opportunistic infections during
their second or third year. The uninfected children ENCOURAGING CONDOM USE. Condom use is ef-
of infected mothers are also at increased risk of fective in slowing the spread of both HIV and
dying because they are likely to lose one or both of STDs and needs to be encouraged in all riskysex-
their parents. The only strategy for fighting child- ual encounters. Programs to promote condomuse
hood AIDS is to target preventive efforts to in highly vulnerable groups such as clients of sex
women of childbearing age. workers are cost-effective. One such program tar-
Babies can contract HIV through breast milk, geted to low-income sex workers in Nairobi re-
creating difficult tradeoffs between the risk of in- duced the mean annual incidence of gonorrhea
fection and the benefits of breastfeeding for child from 2.8 episodes per woman in 1986 to 0.7 epi-
health. Recent studies suggest that the risk is sub- sode in 1989. The program averted an estimated
stantial (about 30 percent) for babies breastfed by 6,000 to 10,000 new HIV infections a year at an
mothers who develop an HIV infection after child- approximate cost of $0.50 per DALY gained. Com-
birth; the risk for babies of women who are infec- munity-wide interventions are also being tried
ted prenatally is smaller, although still significant. with success. In Zimbabwe a community interven-
Randomized controlled studies are under way in tion estimated to cost $85,000 successfully reached
Haiti, Kenya, and Rwanda to determine the risks more than 1 million persons, distributed more
more accurately. In the meantime, in areas where than 5.7 million condoms, and reduced STDs in
the primary causes of infant deaths are infectious the general population by 6 to 50 percent in differ-
diseases and malnutrition, breastfeeding should ent areas. The intervention also changed behavior
probably continue to be recommended. In areas among sex workers: the proportion reporting con-
where a safe alternative to breastfeeding exists, dom use with their last client rose to 72 percent,
testing of pregnant women would provide an op- from only 18 percent before the intervention.
portunity to advise those infected about the health Social marketing is another strategy for promot-
risk of breastfeeding for their babies. ing condom use. In Zaire distribution outlets
Specific preventive interventions from pharmacies to traditional healers and from
nightclubs to street vendorswere saturated with
Widespread experience with national AIDS con- condoms. Condom sales rose from 20,000 in 1987
trol programs in industrial and developing coun- to 18.3 million in 1991. Consumer research indi-
tries is already on hand. It suggests some areas in cates that 90 percent of the condoms were bought
which action needs to be taken and provides im- by men and that about 60 percent were intended
portant lessons for programs to control AIDS. for casual sex. Estimates suggest that theprogram
averted about 25,000 HIV infections in 1991 alone.

102


--- Page 117 ---
REDUCING BLOOD-BORNE TRANSMISSION. Blood ning clinics has revealed infection rates as high as
transfusions account for less than 5 percent of HIV 20 percent.
transmission worldwide, but transfusion with in-
fected blood almost always leads to infection. Mea- TESTING AND SCREENING. Voluntary HIV testing
sures for preventing transmission of HIV through provides individuals with useful information
blood transfusions include reducing the need for about themselves and their partners. Studies sug-
transfusions, eliminating payments for donated gest that counseling and testing can help individ-
blood (because paid donors tend to have a higher uals and couples adopt safer sexual behavior. The
risk of HIV), and screening donors. Effective early once-prohibitive cost of testing has been declining
treatment of health problems, combined with edu- sharply; a couple can now be screened for less
cation for health care providers about the proper than $2 (excluding the cost of counseling). The
indications for transfusion, can cut the need for test, however, is not always reliable because there
transfusions by more than 50 percent. Public is a short period during which HIV may not be
health programs such as helminth control in detected in a newly infected person; furthermore,
schools, iron supplementation, prenatal care, and a negative test result is no guarantee of continuing
malaria control can reduce the severity of existing risk-free behavior. As a result, testing is currently
anemia and thus diminish the need for transfu- most useful for couples within or planning a long-
sions. When transfusion is unavoidable, blood do- term relationship. Governments need to ensure
nors can be screened to ensure a supply of unin- that testing remains voluntary and anonymous,
fected blood. The cost-effectiveness of blood meets quality standards, and is accompanied by
screening varies dramatically depending on the appropriate counseling or information.
prevalence of HIV. To maintain the population's
overall confidence in the medical community, SURVEILLANCE. Public health surveillance for
however, blood screening has been advocated HIV is critical in areas where extensive spread of
even where HIV prevalence is low. When blood the virus has not yet occurred. Countries that es-
banks exist, screening adds only about 5 percent to tablish a timely and reliable system of surveillance
the total cost of each unit of transfused blood. are able to give policymakers early warning of an
impending spread of the virus. Useful activities
INTEGRATING AIDS PREVENTION AND STD SER- include regular surveillance for HIV and syphilis
VICES. Wide availability of STD services is crucial in a few prenatal clinics and in centers serving cli-
for fighting AIDS because HIV transmission is fa- ents at high risk of infection, such as sex workers
cilitated by the genital lesions and inflammation and patients with STDs.
associated with STDs. Treatment of STDs is often Several of the preventive interventions dis-
highly cost-effective in its own right. It becomes cussed above have been incorporated in the Indian
even more cost-effective when the benefits of re- government's National AIDS Control Project,
duced HIV transmission are added. Curing each launched in 1992 with the assistance of the World
case of gonorrhea in a core group saves 120 Bank and WHO. The Indian program emphasizes
DALYs, at a cost well below $1 per DALY gained if promoting public awareness about AIDS, promot-
the benefits of fewer secondary cases and reduced ing health in core groups through NGOs, control-
risk of HIV transmission are included. ling STDs, improving the safety of blood supplies,
cially in women), infected individuals may haveBecause many STDs are asymptomatic (espe-strengthening surveillance and institutional capa-
bilities for control of HIV-AIDS, and encouraging
little motivation to be tested and treated. Even for the humane treatment of people with AIDS or HIV
those with symptoms, charges for clinical services infections.
may reduce access to treatment and therefore in-
crease the spread of STDs. In Nairobi, for exam- Care of AIDS patients
ple, the introduction of fees at the main STD clinic
reduced attendance by 60 percent among men and In 1992 developing countries spent about $340 mil-
35 percent among women. Subsidizing STD ser- lion to care for AIDS patients. Although this is
vices therefore makes sense as part of an AIDS only a small fraction of the $4.7 billion spent by
control program. Another good strategy is to com- industrial countries to care for their AIDS patients,
bine STD and family planning services; screening it is still nearly twice the amount spent on AIDS
for asymptomatic STD infections in family plan- prevention in the developing world. If spending

103


--- Page 118 ---
per patient remains constant, the amount spent on tial sum. Palliative home care, by contrast, costs
the care of AIDS patients in developing countries between $30 and $75 per DALY gained, but it may
will more than triple, to $1.1 billion in 2000. To be a substantial burden to the family. Uganda's
date, many AIDS control programs have not de- innovative activities have made it possible to pro-
veloped guidelines for the cost-effective provision vide caring responses, at modest cost, to those af-
of care for AIDS patients. Antiviral drugs such as flicted (Box 4.9).
azidothymidine (AZT) are enormously expensive,
have severe side effects, and may, at best, delay The need for national and international action
the onset of AIDS and prolong life to some extent.
One year of AZT costs more than $3,000, a prohib- At present, most national AIDS programs are in-
itively high figure. Treatment options in many adequate, despite international attention and the
low-income nations are therefore limited to allevia- significant effort by WHO to help design and im-
tion of pain and management of the opportunistic plement plans for controlling AIDS. Most pro-
infectionsmost commonly, tuberculosis, diar- grams use only the resources available to minis-
rhea, and candidiasisthat afflict HIV-infected tries of health, are too standardized, and neglect
persons. Strategic planning can greatly reduce the control of STDs. AIDS has to be approached as
costs through the use of a small number of less- a national development issue. National leadership
expensive drugs and outpatient or community is crucial; the most effective programs, such as
treatment where possible. Basic care, including Thailand's, pursue strategies that involve many
outpatient treatment of opportunistic infections, agencies, in and outside government, in an atmo-
can cost $200 to $400 per DALY gained, a substan- sphere of openness and frankness (Box 4.10).

Box 4.9 Coping with AIDS in Uganda

By June 1992 Uganda had reported 33,971 AIDS cases; TASO has grown to include ninety-seven counselors,
the true number may be between 100,000 and 300,000, three supervisors, and six trainers in eight locations.
and it is estimated that I million to 1.5 million Ugan- Services, which reach more than 30,000 people a year,
dans are infected with HIV. In Kampala more than 30 include counseling, condom education and distribu-
percent of all pregnant women are infected, and in tion, home care, income-generating activities, feeding
many parts of the country AIDS is the most common programs, and payment of orphans' school fees.
cause of admission and death among hospitalized In 1990, to address the demand for personal testing,
adults. With this immense burden, care of infected in- Uganda's first anonymous HIV testing and counseling
dividuals and management of the social consequences center was established. The enormous demand has
of infection are perceived to be as important as preven- made individual pretest counseling impossible, but
tion of further cases of HIV. group counseling has become popular. Individual post-
In response, a variety of innovative activities have test counseling continues to be offered, and HIV-posi-
been undertaken. In 1987 the first AIDS clinic was tive patients are referred to TASO for further support.
opened, with a small staff, a few drugs, and little out- AIDS awareness in Uganda is so high that many peo-
side support. The clinic recently enrolled its 8,000th ple assume they are infected. Couples who are tested
patient. Patients regard the care they get there as much and found to be negative report they are more moti-
higher in quality than that available elsewhere. The vated to be monogamous, and a small follow-up study
founder of the clinic, Dr. Ely Katabira, and another found that such clients have fewer casual sex partners
physician at the national teaching hospital have pro- and use condoms regularly. Additional centers have
duced a 104-page manual on AIDS care that recom- been established in other areas, as well as an executive
mends simple diagnostic and treatment strategies for testing center for businessmen and parliamentarians
AIDS; for example, nine relatively inexpensive drugs uncomfortable about being served in the busy public
used in combination with tuberculosis therapy can clinic. High demand indicates that Ugandans want to
achieve a high degree of relief for patients with AIDS. know whether they are infected, particularly before
Also in 1987 sixteen Ugandans who were personally embarking on important life events such as marriage.
affected by AIDS (because of their own infection or that Uganda's experience demonstrates that an AIDS-test-
of a family member) set up a new voluntary organiza- ing program in a country with a high prevalence of
tion, The AIDS Support Organization (TASO), to pro- heterosexual transmission can have a more positive in-
vide emotional support for AIDS sufferers. Twelve of fluence on behavior than results from the industrial
the founding members have since died of AIDS, but world would indicate.

104


--- Page 119 ---
Box 4.10 HIV in Thailand: from disaster toward containment

As late as 1988 Thailand and the test of Asia were con- dination Bureau in the office of the permanent secre-
sidered to be relatively free of HIV infection, leading tary of the prime minister. The multisectoral bureau
senior Thai health experts to conjecture that Asians coordinates the planning and budgeting of AIDS activ-
might be less susceptible to the disease. That year, ities among fourteen ministries, international funding
however, an explosive HIV epidemic started its march agencies, and local sources of support. The bureau also
through Thailand, affecting all levels of society. Today facilitates the planning of joint activities with private
it is estimated that 2 percent of sexually active adults, businesses and NGOs.
or 400,000 to 600,000 people, are infected. Without ef- Thailand's strategy has led to a broad consensus
fective prevention, by 2000 the number infected may be within the country on the importance of taking action.
as high as 2 million to 4 million. Spending for AIDS prevention was $28 million in 1991
Faced with the HIV epidemic, Thai officials have and $45 million in 1992. To monitor the epidemic, Thai-
moved quickly from complacency to action. Thailand, land has established the world's most comprehensive
they realized, could not sustain its 10 percent annual national HIV surveillance system, which reports twice
growth of GNP in the presence of a huge AIDS epi- a year on HIV prevalence in all risk groups in all pro-
demic. Indeed, in 1991 researchers projected that the vinces of the country. Acknowledging that commercial
aggregate direct and indirect cost of AIDS could be as sex is ingrained in Thai society and will remain so in
high as $8 billion over the next decade and that AIDS the short run, the government has decided to mandate
could have negative effects on tourism, foreign invest- and enforce a policy of 100 percent condom use at the
ment, and labor remittances from abroad. They ar- brothels. This ensures that brothels cannot compete for
gued, however, that a major preventive effort, with the customers seeking condom-free sex. Preliminary evi-
goals of reducing numbers of sexual partners by at least dence shows very high rates of condom use, with de-
one-half, doubling condom use, and treating STDs, mand increasing from 10 million a year to about 120
could mean 3.5 million fewer infections and more than million a year and reductions in the incidence of STDs.
$5 billion in savings by 2000. The prime minister's office is launching national
AIDS prevention is now being accorded the highest campaigns through the mass media in 1993-94 to pro-
priority in Thailand, and a national AIDS prevention mote changes in the sexual culture and the sexual
and control committee chaired by the prime minister norms of the population. Only time will determine
has been formed. In 1992 the cabinet approved the es- whether intervention has been prompt and effective
tablishment of the AIDS Policy and Planning Coor- enough to halt the further spread of HIV

No single strategy in the fight against AIDS will Areas with an HIV epidemic but as yet little
meet the needs of every country. Three main crite- disease (for example, Thailand, and urban areas of
ria can guide the choice of priorities from the range India) need to develop AIDS prevention programs
of HIV-AIDS interventions listed above. These cri- for the entire population while continuing to target
teria are current HIV prevalence, risk of future high-risk groups. Voluntary HIV testing and coun-
spread, and existing AIDS burden. Strategies for seling and preparation for the care of AIDS pa-
different countries and regions within countries tients should also begin.
fall into four main groups. Finally, areas with a major epidemic and a
Areas with little HIV and few STDs (for ex- high disease burden (for example, Uganda and
ample, rural areas of northern China and North Zambia) have to combine a broadly based preven-
Africa) should emphasize comprehensive repro- tive strategy with attention to care for AIDS pa-
ductive health education for youth, with some at- tients (see Box 4.9).
tention to AIDS prevention among high-risk Nongovernmental organizations can play a vital
groups, and should establish a sensitive HIV sur- role in prevention, care, and community support
veillance system. programs, using their credibility and access to
Areas at high risk of an epidemic from early reach those at highest risk, such as intravenous
spread of HIV or having a high rate of STDs (for drug users and sex workers. Such groups have
example, Yunnan Province in China and Sura- been highly effective in using social marketing to
baya, Indonesia) should undertake massive, tar- reach individuals at the grass-roots level, particu-
geted preventive activities for high-risk groups, in- larly by initiating peer education and media pro-
cluding sex workers, supplemented by general grams that reinforce behavior change and work to
education and by testing of the blood supply. modify the perceived social norms. A recent

105


--- Page 120 ---
Table 4.7 Costs and health benefits of public health packages in low- and middle-income countries, 1990

Country groupand component of package Annual cost (dollars) Disease burdenPer participant Per capita Per DALYaverted
(percent)
Low-income (income per capita = $350)
EPI Plus 14.6 0.5 12-17 6.0
School health program 3.6 0.3 20-25 0.1
Other public health programs (including family planning,
health, and nutrition information)b 2.4 1.4 - -
Tobacco and alcohol control program 0.3 0.3 35-50 0.1'
AIDS prevention program° 112.2 1.7 3-5 2.0
Total - 4.2 - 8.2
(1.2)
Middle-income (income per capita = $2,500)
EPI Plus 28.6 0.8 25-30 1.0
School health program 6.5 0.6 38-43 0.4
Other public health programs (including family planning,
health, and nutrition information)" 5.2 3.1
Tobacco and alcohol control program 0.3 0.3 45-55 Q3d
AIDS prevention programe 132.3 2.0 13-18 2.3
Total 6.8 - 4.0
(0.3)
Note: Numbers in parentheses refer to per capita cost as a percentage of income per capita.
Although costs are estimated for 100 percent coverage, the health benefits are based on 95 percent coverage for EN Plus and 80 percent
coverage for the school health, AIDS prevention, and tobacco and alcohol programs.
lance and monitoring.Includes information, communication, and education on selected risk factors and health behaviors, plus vector control and disease surveil-
The health benefits from information and communication and from disease surveillanceare counted in the other public and clinical services in
the health package. The health benefits from vector control are unknown.
Calculation of the potential disease burden averted through this program assumes no change in the prevalence of smoking and alcohol
consumption; if such prevalence were to rise, the potential benefits would be larger.
Source: Authors' calculations.Exiudes treatment of STDs, which are in the clinical services package; see Table 5.3.

needs-assessment study conducted in a number of gains at modest cost. Local conditions vary, but an
developing countries showed that the full poten- essential public health package is likely to include:
tial of NGOs was not being realized for lack of The Expanded Programme on Immunization,
financial, managerial, and technical support. Plan- including micronutrient supplementation
ning is under way for a program to provide inno- School health programs to treat worm infec-
vative mechanisms for simple and flexible assis- tions and micronutrient deficiencies and to pro-
tance to nongovernmental groups working on vide health education
AIDS. Programs to increase public knowledge about
The world must do more to deal with the global family planning and nutrition, about self-cure or
challenge of AIDS. No country is immune from a indications for seeking care, and about vectorcon-
future HIV epidemic, and the costs of delay are trol and disease surveillance activities
high. A global coalition is needed that will encour- Programs to reduce consumption of tobacco,
age and assist governments to take bold action be- alcohol, and other drugs
fore it is too late. Without a substantial increase in AIDS prevention programs with a strong STD
political commitment and leadership-as well as component.
additional resources to support the $1.5 billion to
$2.9 billion needed annually for effective preven- This public health package would yield large bene-
tion of AIDS-the HIV epidemic could cause a fits at low cost (Table 4.7). In low-income countries
health disaster and an enormous setback for it would avert more than 8 percent of the burden
development. of disease at a cost of just $4 per capita (1.2 percent
The essential public health package of income per capita), while in middle-income
Public health programs that address the problems countries it might avert 4 percent of the burden of
described above can produce substantial health disease at a cost of $7 per capita (0.3 percent of
income per capita). Because it is difficult to quan-

106


--- Page 121 ---
tify the health gains from the activities under services. These are included in the essential pack-
"Other public health programs," the correspond- age of clinical measures discussed in the next
ing cost per DALY is not estimated. chapter. Health will also be served if governments
Provision of information is needed in every as- do less in a number of areasif they avoid inter-
pect of the program. Information should cover the vening in food markets, cut indiscriminate sub-
benefits of healthy eating, contraceptive use, and sidies for water and sanitation, remove most re-
hygienic practices in the household; the health ef- strictions on contraceptive services, and abolish
fects of smoking and of alcohol and drug abuse; subsidies on fuels. Appropriate government regu-
and prevention of HIV infections. Some public latory action on the ambient environment,occupa-
health measures will involve providing services in tional conditions, and road safety can also safe-
clinics, including family planning and STD-related guard people's health.

107


--- Page 122 ---
Clinical services

This chapter analyzes the roles of the public and Although both the public and the private sectors
private sectors in paying for and delivering clinical have important roles in the delivery of clinical ser-
services. It examines in depth an important con- vices, government-run health systems in many de-
clusion of Chapter 3: that governments have a fun- veloping countries are overextended and need to
damental responsibility for ensuring universal ac- be scaled back. This can be done through legal and
cess to an essential package of clinical services, administrative changes designed to facilitate pri-
with special attention to reaching the poor (Table vate (NGO and for-profit) involvement in provi-
5.1). The choice of services to be included in such a sion of health services, by public subsidies to
package for each country will be strongly influ- NGOs for supplying the essential package, and by
enced by information on the distribution of dis- curtailment of new investments in public tertiary
ease and the relative cost-effectiveness of clinical hospitals. At the same time, the efficiency of pub-
interventions. A minimum package of clinical ser- lic sector health services can be greatly enhanced
vices could reduce the present burden of disease through decentralization and improved manage-
by about one-quarter in low-income countries and ment of government hospitals and programs.
by about one-tenth in middle-income countries.
This package is affordablebut only if govern- Public and private finance of clinical services
ments carry out significant health-financing re-
forms that will affect the allocation of public funds Around the world, clinical services are financed
and the roles of insurance and of user charges. through four main channels. Twoout-of-pocket
Only by reducing or eliminating spending on payments and voluntary insuranceare private.
clinical services that are outside the nationally de- The other two are public: compulsory insurance
fined essential package can governments concen- (sometimes known as social insurance) that is
trate on ensuring essential clinical care for the either publicly managed or heavily regulated by
poor. Two key ways to reallocate government governments, and funding from general govern-
spending are to increase cost recovery, especially ment revenues.
by charging the wealthy for services in govern- In the poorest countries total health expenditure
ment hospitals, and to promote unsubsidized in- may be as low as $2 per person a year, and more
surance for middle- and upper-income groups. than half of this comes from private sources,
Governments can avoid the explosive increases in mainly in the form of out-of-pocket payments. In-
health expenditures that many countries are now surance mechanisms in those countries are weak,
confronting by encouraging competition among and the amount of government revenues devoted
providers and prepayment for care, generating to health is low. As incomes increase, so do both
and disseminating information on providers' costs the percentage of income spent on health (as
and insurers' products, and, in some cases, setting shown in the upper panel of Figure 5.1) and the
limits on compensation of physicians and share of health spending that comes from public
hospitals. sources (illustrated in the lower panel). In the for-

108


--- Page 123 ---
Table 5.1 Rationales and directions for government action in the finance and delivery of clinicalservices

government action: market failureConditions that may call for
Area and poverty Directions for government action
Essential clinical services Failure to treat, for example, Finance essential clinical services by reallocating current
tuberculosis and STDs government spending. In low-income countries this may
creates risks for the general mean increasing public expenditures for health.
population. Public Require through legislation that social insurance or
financing can help offset mandated private insurance cover an essential package.
the additional external Encourage more private and NGO provision of essential
costs to society. Poor services, through appropriate legislation and targeted
people have limited ability public subsidies.
to save or borrow to meet
unexpected and uninsured
health expenses. Families,
including children, can fall
into poverty because of ill
health.
Clinical services outside the In insurance markets Reduce or eliminate subsidization of clinical services outside
essential package selection bias leads to lack the essential package. Subsidies for public provision of
of coverage for high-risk services at less than cost and tax relief for employer and
groups. "Moral hazard," employee health insurance payments often cover services
by insulating patient and with low cost-effectiveness and primarily benefit the
provider from the cost wealthy.
implications of their Legislate compulsory social insurance or mandated private
decisions, results in insurance, or define the national essential package
overuse of services. The comprehensively.
asymmetry of information Limit government involvement in delivery of nonessential
between patient and services and encourage competition in service delivery by
provider can cause government, NGOs, and the private sector.
suppliers to induce excess Regulate private insurance by, for example, requiring
demand. community risk-rating and forbidding the rejection of
high-risk consumers.
Define the exact content of prepaid packages of care to serve
as the products bought and sold in the insurance market.
Encourage the use of prepayment or salary-based
approaches to provider compensation.
Foster improvements in the quality of private provision by
encouraging self-regulation of hospitals, medical schools,
and physicians and by disseminating performance
indicators.

merly socialist economies and the established mar- surance pays for much care and, if so, what is the
ket economies (excluding the United States) public dominant type of insurance (Table 5.2).
spending accounts for a full three-quarters of total In low-income countries private out-of-pocket pay-
health expenditure. ments account for more than half of the mere $2 to
In addition to the four sources of health financ- $40 per person spent each year for health care.
ing, there are three ways of organizing clinical Most of this sum goes for doctors' fees, payments
health services: public, private nonprofit, and pri- to traditional healers, and drugs. NGOs, particu-
vate for-profit. All national health systems use at larly those related to religious institutions, make
least two of the twelve possible combinations of important contributions to the provision of health
financing method and health service organization, services in many low-income countries. In Tan-
and sometimes the different combinations serve zania and Haiti NGOs operate nearly half of the
sharply differentiated populations. Even so, it is hospitals, and in Cameroon and Uganda they
possible to group countries according to income manage 40 percent of health facilities. In Ghana
level and the predominant system of providing and Nigeria about a third of all hospital beds are
health care. A principal distinction is whether in- located in mission hospitals. Government spend-

109


--- Page 124 ---
As countries get richer, the i spend more of their income on health, and the public share grows larger.

Figure 5.1 Income and health spending in seventy countries, 1990

Share of GDP spent on health
Percent
13
United States

11

France. . Canada
9 - Lesotho. 0 0
0 00
Korea, 0 0 Norway0
7 0 0 Rep. of. o Spain Japan
India 0 0 S 00
- 0 00 0 United Kingdom
Jamaica 0 0
5 enya
S Brazil 00 0
- 000 0 o000 0 Cyprus

3 0 0
- 0 Egypt

I
0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000
GDP per capita (1991 international dollars)

Public share of total health spending
Percent
Norway.
90 0 0
Hungary 5 0 United Kingdom. 00
0 5 0 Japan0 0
0 Spain 5Can
- Brazil Greece 0 da
70 0 0 France 0
o Jamaica S
0 Cyprus

0 00 -' 00
50 0
00 0 0 0 S Israel Unitd States
Kenya 0 'EgyptS Lesotho 0 . Korea, Rep. of S

0
30 0 'Philippines
0 Hong Kong0
'India 0 S
sUganda
10
0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000
GDP per capita (1991 international dollars)

Source: Murray, Govindaraj, and Chellaraj, background paper.

110


--- Page 125 ---
Table 5.2 Clinical health systems by income group
Health expenditure, 1990
As share Dollars
Country group and 1990 per of GNP per Main
capita income (dollars) (percent) capita characteristics Examples
Low-income (100-600) 2-7 2-40 High private spending for traditional Bangladesh, India,
medicine and for drugs Pakistan, most
Public services financed from general Sub-Saharan
revenues African
Little insurance countries
Middle-income (600-7,900)
Private insurance 2-7 20-350 Government services for middle- and low- South Africa,
income groups financed from general Zimbabwe
revenues
Private insurance and private provision for
affluent (less than 10 percent of
population)
Social insurance 3-7 20-400 Public health and clinical care for low-income Costa Rica, Republic
groups financed from general revenues of Korea, Turkey
Social insurance for wage labor force, with
mixed provision
Formerly socialist 3-6 30-200 Public services (which are low in quality or Czech Republic,
economies of Europe collapsing) financed from general revenues Poland, Slovak
(650-6,000) Large underground market in privately Republic, republics
provided services of former U.S.S.R.
Established market 6-10 400-2,500 Universal or near-universal coverage through France, Germany,
economies, excluding general revenue financing or compulsory Japan (social
United States social insurance insurance); Norway,
(5,000-34,000) Use of capped third-party payments and Sweden, United
global budgets Kingdom (general
tax revenues)
United States (22,000) 12 2,800 Combination of private voluntary insurance United States
and use of general revenue from taxes
Unregulated and open-ended fee-for-service
compensation
High administrative costs associated with
health provision and insurance
a. Although China is a low-income country, its health system is closer to that of a middle-income country with social insurance.
Source: For expenditure, Appendix table A.9.

ing from general tax revenues generally amounts weakened considerably. The rural population in-
to less than half of the 2 to 7 percent of GNP allo- creasingly relies on a system of government-
cated to health services. There is little or no provided health care financed in part out of gen-
insurance. eral revenues, but with substantial cost recovery
Until recently, China was an important excep- through user charges, not unlike systems prevail-
tion among low-income countries. There, between ing in other low-income countries.
1960 and 1980, state enterprises provided health In the middle-income countries there are two major
care directly to their workers or contracted with types of health systems, distinguished by whether
government hospitals to do so. Rural communes the government or the private sector provides
were required to earmark a portion of their finan- health insurance. Health spending, at $20 to $400
cial resources for health services for all their mem- per capita, is higher than in low-income countries,
bers. By the late 1970s insurance covered virtually and both public and private managerial capacity is
all the urban population and 85 percent of the rural stronger. In countries with private insurance, such
populationa unique achievement for a low- as South Africa and Zimbabwe, the government
income developing country. Since the elimination uses general revenues to pay for health care for
of communal agriculture and the liberalization of middle- and low-income groups, while upper-
industry in the early 1980s, however, these forms income households (less than 20 percent of the
of health insurance and service delivery have population) use private insurance to pay for pri-

111


--- Page 126 ---
vate physicians and hospitals or for private rooms of essential clinical services. But what should be
in government hospitals. the content of this package? Although political
In countries with social insurance, mandatory considerations will inevitably affect the decision,
contributions from employees and employers, and the most important factors in selecting the essen-
sometimes government funds, finance insurance tial package should be the relative cost-effective-
for part of the population, including most middle- ness of interventions, the size and distribution of
class workers. Health care for the poor is financed the health problems affecting the population, and
from general revenues. This is the system that pre- the resources available.
vails in Korea, Turkey, and most of Latin America.
In the formerly socialist economies of Eastern Eu- Defining the essential package
rope and the Soviet Union, general revenue
financing with government provision of health A patient's health needs often require several in-
services was until recently the only officially recog- terrelated interventions. A child with fever and di-
nized form of health care. Public spending on arrhea may require treatment for both acute respi-
health now accounts for 3 to 6 percent of GNP in ratory and gastrointestinal infections. A pregnant
these countries, or $30 to $200 per capita. Prior to woman needs to receive both prenatal and deliv-
the period of political and economic liberalization ery care. For this reason, it makes sense to group
in the late 1980s, private payments were fre- certain interventions when analyzing their costs
quently made for "public" health services (for ex- and benefits. Five groups, or clusters, of clinical
ample, gratuities were given physicians in govern- interventions are likely to be important in every
ment hospitals), and drugs often leaked from the country's essential clinical package: prenatal and
public sector into private markets. Since the politi- delivery care; family planning services; manage-
cal and economic reforms that swept across these ment of the sick child; treatment of tuberculosis;
countries in the late 1980s, the health systems and case management of sexually transmitted dis-
there have been in crisis. Dwindling public fund- eases (STD5). The first two groups are often dis-
ing and deteriorating government services have cussed under the umbrella of "safe motherhood"
created strong pressures for new forms of public activities, but for the purposes of cost and benefit
and private insurance. estimates they are presented separately here. All
The established market economies, with the excep- five sets of interventions are highly cost-effective;
tion of the United States, rely on one of the two each costs $50 or less per DALY in low-income
types of public financing for more than three-quar- settings and $150 or less per DALY in middle-
ters of their health expenditures, which range income settings. Moreover, they deal with wide-
from $400 to $2,500 per person per year. Norway, spread health problems that affect the poor.
Sweden, and the United Kingdom use general tax Details on the health problems that these five
revenues to pay for health services that are pro- groups of clinical interventions help to resolve, on
vided directly by the government. In France, Ger- ways of delivering the interventions efficiently to
many, and Japan, among others, social insurance patients, and on the cost-effectiveness of the inter-
is the dominant mode of financing. The United ventions are given in Boxes 5.1 through 5.4. The
States, with annual health spending of about problems addressed are among the largest afflict-
$2,800 per capita, has a bewildering combination ing developing countries. Four preventable or eas-
of systems, including voluntary private employ- ily treatable infectious diseases of children account
ment-based insurance, compulsory insurance for for nearly 7 million child deaths annually. Unsafe
federal workers with each employee having a childbirth is responsible for half a million maternal
choice of alternative insurers and packages, and deaths each year. Tuberculosis kills more than 2
full public finance and provision for veterans. A million people annually, making it the leading
single-payer approach financed from general reve- cause of death among adults. More than 250 mil-
nue is used at the federal level for health care for lion new cases of debilitating and potentially fatal
the elderly (Medicare) and at the state level for thd STDs occur each year.
poor (Medicaid). In addition to these five groups of clinical inter-
Selecting and financing the essential clinical ventions, in any realistic setting an essential pack-
package age would have to include treatment of minor
infection and trauma, as well as advice and allevia-
A basic responsibility accepted by governments al- tion of pain for health problems that cannot be
most everywhere is to ensure access to a package fully resolved with existing resources and technol-

112


--- Page 127 ---
Box 5.1 Making pregnancy and delivery safe

Under optimal conditions, about 990 of every 1,000 others to danger signs that may occur during preg-
pregnancies that reach the seventh month of gestation nancy and childbirth, and mobilize communities for
conclude with a healthy newborn and a healthy transport of women with complications to district
mother. For most women in the developing world, hospitals
however, childbirth is unsafe. About one in 50 women Community-based obstetrics with trained nurse-mid-
in developing countries dies as a consequence of com- wife staff to provide prenatal care, including tetanus
plications of pregnancy and childbirth, compared with toxoid immunization, treatment for syphilis, provision
only one in 2,700 in the established market economies. of micronutrients (iron, folate, and iodine), and detec-
Maternal mortality has profound consequences within tion of complications of pregnancy and delivery; nor-
the household; the chances of dying for children under mal delivery, including prophylactic application of an-
5 increase by up to 50 percent when the mother dies. tibiotics against gonorrheal ophthalmia; obstetric first
In [987 the international health community, includ- aid, including sedatives for early eclampsia (preg-
ing the World Bank, WHO, the United Nations Popula- nancy-related seizures) and manual removal of the pla-
tion Fund (UNPF), and agencies in forty-five countries, centa; effective early referral of severe complications;
launched the Safe Motherhood Initiative. The prime and safe abortion.
goal is to reduce by half the number of maternal deaths District hospital facilities to provide essential obstet-
by 2000. The health programs recommended under the ric services (cesarean section, anesthesia, blood re-
initiative include family planning and pregnancy- placement, manual procedures, and monitoring of la-
related care, prenatal care, and delivery care. (Family bor) and neonatal resuscitation (aspiration of secretions
planning and abortion services are discussed more and assisted respiration with oxygen).
fully in Chapter 4.) The marginal cost-effectiveness of The emphasis given the different components will
pregnancy-related care varies with circumstances, but depend on local conditions. At one extreme are dis-
the World Bank has estimated that the average cost per tricts where resources are limited and women are
DALY is between $30 and $110, the equivalent of less highly isolated. Here, high priorities would be prenatal
than $2,000 per death averted. care aimed mainly at correcting micronutrient deficien-
The extension of prenatal, delivery, and postpartum cies and infections such as STDs and malaria. At the
care to 80 percent of the world's population would re- other extreme are urban and periurban areas where
duce by 40 percent the burden of disease associated referral centers are overwhelmed with normal deliv-
with unsafe childbirth, at a cost of between $90 and eries and the quality of care is typically low; here,
$255 per birth attended, or $4 to $9 per capita. A rea- health centers should be improved so that they can
sonable program of pregnancy-related care would in- deal with normal births, and the quality of hospital care
clude three components: should be enhanced to provide better treatment of ob-
Information, education, and communications designed stetric complications.
to create demand for clinical services, alert women and

ogies. Hospital capacity would be sufficient to trained staffto deliver essential services and that
handle some emergency care, including most frac- inputs for services outside the nationally defined
tures and infrequently needed procedures such as package are not supplied. A district hospital with
appendectomies. Local discretion in the provision about one bed per 1,000 population served is
of these services would depend on the availability needed to provide inpatient and specialized out-
of inputs and on day-to-day capacity. This "lim- patient care, but the hospital would have to per-
ited care" and the five groups of interventions to- form only basic surgery. No higher-level hospital
gether constitute a minimum package of essential clin- is required for delivery of the minimum package.
ical services. Efficient delivery of these essential Although doctors are needed for supervising es-
services requires a well-functioning district health sential clinical care and handling more compli-
system consisting of health posts and health cn- cated cases, most of the services in the minimum
ters as the first point of patient contact and district package can be delivered by nurses and midwives.
hospitals as referral facilities, with the two levels A ratio of fully qualified nurses to physicians of
linked by emergency transport. between 2 and 4 to 1 (estimates vary to accommo-
vided facilities have the necessary inputsdrugs,Governments must ensure that publicly pro-date the availability of physicians and nurses in
supplies, facilities, equipment, and properly different regions) and 0.1 to 0.2 physician per
1,000 population would be adequate. Although

113


--- Page 128 ---
Box 5.2 Integrated management of the sick child
Four groups of infectious diseasediarrhea! diseases, experience with these two disease clusters can be ex-
acute respiratory infections (ARIs), measles, and ma- panded to include children with malaria, measles, and
lanaaccount for more than half of the 12.7 million malnutrition. Evidence that malaria and pneumonia
deaths every year of children under age 5. In the devel- overlap in their clinical presentation and can be treated
oping world measles alone causes 860,000 deaths in with the same antibiotic strengthens the case for treat-
children under age 5 and accounts for 6 percent of ing several diseases together.
DALYs lost in that age group. Malaria causes 4 percent Under the integrated management approach, the
of the disease burden in the under-five group. Sick sick child is initially assessed by means of a limited
children taken by their mothers to health centers for range of questions and observation of easily recognized
diarrhea! disease and for ARTs such as pneumonia of- symptoms. The child's nutritional and immunization
ten receive inappropriate diagnosis and treatment, status is measured, and immunization is given if
leading to unnecessary complications and deaths. needed. The child's condition is classified according to
Whereas preventing diarrhea! diseases and ARIs has disease grouping and severity guidelines, which are
proved difficult and is probably not cost-effective, case used as a basis for treatment and possible referrals. The
management in community-based programs is feasible final step is to give the mother advice Ofl follow-up
and extremely effective. WHO and UNICEF have re- care.
cently begun to support national programs on the Inte- The core of the package is to train primary health
grated Management of the Sick Child. This initiative care providers to diagnose diseases and prescribe the
builds on more than fifteen years of experience with appropriate treatment at the health center level or refer
case management of diarrheal diseases, mainly by oral immediately to a district hospital those cases with com-
rehydration therapy (ORT), and about seven years of plications. An adequate supply of antibiotics, anti-
research on and program implementation of case man- malarial drugs, and other drugs is critical for success.
agement of ARIs. The integrated cluster of treatments, including hospital
In Nepal a controlled intervention trial that relied services, would cost between $30 and $100 per DALY
exclusively on indigenous community health workers saved. Since the walk-in component accounts for ap-
(CHWs) to detect and treat pneumonia without hospi- proximately 60 to 70 percent of the reduction in the
talization led to a 28 percent reduction in the risk of disease burden, district hospitals are not indispensable
death from all causes by the third year of service. Addi- for starting the program, but their presence and proper
tional benefits were obtained from the reduction in functioning add substantial health benefits. If high
deaths caused by diarrhea and measles. Other research rates of health service use can be achieved, child deaths
on similar community-based strategies for children un- in high-mortality communities, according to WHO esti-
der age 5 indicates decreases of approximately 50 per- mates, could be reduced by between 50 and 70 percent.
cent in infant mortality from ARTs. In Egypt the use of This fact and the relatively low technology involved
ORT has in some areas led to a reduction of 50 percent make the management of the sick child a high priority
in mortality from diarrhea and 40 percent in overall in countries with child mortality rates of more than
mortality among children ages I month to 5 years. The thirty deaths per 1,000 children under age 5.

many developing countries can already deliver the drugs) to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease
minimum package, some low-income nations in high-risk individuals, and inexpensive manage-
would require additional investments in person- ment of angina and heart attacks. Other treat-
nel, equipment, and facilities. ments that might fit into an expanded package in-
In developing countries with the financial re- clude hernia repair, meningitis treatment for
sources and political will to go beyond the mini- children, management of gastrointestinal ulcers,
mum clinical package, a more comprehensive set cataract removal, and treatment of moderately se-
of services could cover other interventions with vere injuries and of complications of diabetes.
slightly lower cost-effectiveness than those in the Given the large contribution of disability to the
minimum package. This set might include a num- burden of disease, inclusion of low-cost rehabilita-
ber of interventions for chronic disease, such as tive measures will often be a priority for interven-
use of oral hypoglycemics or insulin to control dia- tions beyond the minimum essential package.
betes, medical treatment for schizophrenia and These interventionsmost of which respond to
manic-depressive illness, screening and treatment conditions that will become increasingly common
for breast and cervical cancer, measures (for exam- with the epidemiological transition documented in
ple, use of aspirin and of simple antihypertensive Chapter 1can cost as little as $200 to $300 per

114


--- Page 129 ---
DALY. Including them and other interventions of essential package of services in their allocation of
similar cost-effectiveness would reduce the current public spending on health. In Botswana and Zim-
disease burden by 5 to 10 percent. babwe the rapid decline in infant mortality and
Many health procedures have such low cost- rise in life expectancy during the 1980s were
effectiveness that governments should exclude strongly influenced by government action to ex-
them from the essential clinical package. In low- pand the health infrastructure and by the use of
income countries these might include heart sur- general tax revenues to finance an array of public
gery; treatment (other than pain relief) of highly health and clinical services. Some key services that
fatal cancers of the lung, liver, and stomach; ex- were initially left out of the package but are now
pensive drug therapies for HIV infection; and in- being incorporated include vitamin A supplemen-
tensive care for severely premature babies. It is tation and improved control of STDs. Similarly,
difficult to justify using government funds for dramatic health gains in Costa Rica in the 1970s
these medical treatments when much more cost- were largely brought about by new basic public
effective services that benefit mainly the poor are health and clinical services, financed almost en-
not receiving adequate financing. tirely by the Ministry of Health and the national
Several developing countries that have been social security agency. The remarkable improve-
highly successful at improving the health status of ments in health status in China, Kerala State in
their populations have emphasized access to an India, and Sri Lanka are attributable in part to gov-

Box 5.3 Treatment of sexually transmitted diseases
Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) are extremely person affected is a member of a "core" group and
common infections: according to a 1990 estimate by hence likely to transmit syphilis to others, and Ofl the
WHO, there are more than 250 million new cases each case-detection strategy used, curing a case of syphilis
year worldwide. These diseases have severe and often can cost as little as $0.10 or as much as $40 per DALY. In
irreversible consequences that disproportionately af- Zambia a syphilis treatment demonstration project for
fect women, who bear 80 percent of the total DALYs pregnant women achieved a two-thirds reduction in
lost to STDs (excluding HIV). Women are more likely stillbirths, low birth weights, and neonatal deaths as-
than men to acquire STDs because of the greater effi- sociated with syphilis, even though attendance,
ciency of male-to-female transmission for most STD screening, and treatment were not optimal. The cost
pathogens, the lack of female-controlled preventive was $12 per adverse outcome prevented, or less than
methods, and, in many settings, gender power dy- $1 per DALY. In a similar program in Kenya prevention
namics that limit women's ability to determine the con- of one neonatal death cost $50. Unfortunately, in most
ditions under which sexual intercourse occurs. Women countries a comprehensive program of perinatal syph-
are less likely than men to obtain care for STDs because ilis screening has not been implemented.
the majority of infected women are asymptomatic and Effective interventions exist for other STDs, but lack
those with symptoms may be deterred by fear of social of simple, appropriate, rapid, and inexpensive diag-
stigma. Since STDs also inflict a heavy burden of ill- nostics for use in the field have made these measures
ness on men, and since men are responsible for much much more difficult and expensive to implement. Con-
STD transmission, disease control measures, to be ef- sequently, when resources are limited, such interven-
fective, must be targeted to both sexes. tions must be targeted specifically to core groups to be
Because STDs increase the efficacy of transmission of cost-effective. In these groups, case management of
HIV, controlling these infections is one of the most im- chlamydia (a bacterial infection of the reproductive
portant interventions for containing the spread of tract) and gonorrhea can be highly cost-effective ($10 to
AIDS. But even in the absence of AIDS, STDs cause $40 per DALY), as can treatment of chancroid in areas
substantial morbidity and mortality. They usually af- where it is common. Much of the cost of intervention
fect people in the 15-44 age group, the most economi- for these diseases is related to diagnosis. Calculations
cally productive ages. One of the main causes of .neo- suggest that if prevalence of an STD is more than 10
natal morbidity and mortality in some countries is percent, treating everyone in the risk group may be
congenital syphilis. Because treatment is simple (one to more cost-effective than screening. This, however,
three injections of penicillin) and inexpensive, screen- does not take into account the problems of widespread
ing and treatment for syphilis during prenatal care has use of the antibiotics used to treat STDs, including ad-
been recommended for the minimum package. De- verse reactions, development of microbial resistance,
pending on the prevalence of disease, on whether the and change in microbial flora.

115


--- Page 130 ---
Box 5.4 Short-course treatment of tuberculosis
Tuberculosis (TB) kills or debilitates more adults ages teen months. Drugs for the short course cost about $50
15-59 than any other disease and is responsible for to $80 per patient. Those for the standard course cost
about 2 to 4 percent of the burden of disease. It is the only $10 to $15, but the cost per death averted is higher
single leading cause of death in developing countries, because only 30 percent of patients complete treatment
accounting for about 2 million deaths a year, or ap- and are cured, as against 60 percent for the short
proximately 5 percent of all deaths and 25 percent of course. Other benefits of the short course include a
preventable adult deaths in those countries. More smaller number of resistant organisms and less need
women of childbearing age die from TB than from for expensive retreatment. (This discussion applies to
causes associated with pregnancy and childbirth. More the treatment of sputum-smear-positive TB. Once
than half of the world's population is infected with the other forms of TB have been identified, treatment costs
TB bacillus. People who are malnourished or have an- should be similar except for serious forms of smear-
other severe illness are at particular risk for TB, as are negative TB.)
those infected with HIV. The relationship between TB Walk-in treatment is less expensive than hospitaliza-
and HIV is highly significant, as each person infected tion, but if this care cannot be closely monitored (as in
with HIV and TB could infect twelve other persons many rural areas), hospitalization may be more cost-
with TB per year. effective. The program described is modeled on pas-
Annual incidence rates of all forms of clinical TB vary sive case investigation, assuming that a person with TB
from 50 to 260 per 100,000 in the developing world; will have symptoms such as cough and weight loss and
more than half of these cases are infectious (sputum- will seek care and that infected persons discovered by
smear-positive). For most forms of TB, 50 to 60 percent active searches will be less likely to continue treatment
of those infected will die if untreated. All ages are at than those who seek care. Although the BCG vaccina-
risk, but the peak is in young adulthood. In Sub- tion is important in TB control for children, its effec-
Saharan Africa the annual risks of infection remain tiveness in adults is still under investigation.
high, partly because of poverty and overcrowding The cost of treatment is less than $10 per DALY in all
(which are risk factors for TB) and partly because any chemotherapy scenarios. It is estimated that tuber-
decrease in the annual risk of infection is offset by the culosis treatment of infectious (smear-positive) individ-
HIV epidemic. In India and Sub-Saharan Africa TB is uals prevents one to four new cases by stopping trans-
the leading cause of death and the biggest contributor mission. The positive externalities of short-course
to the disease burden; it is responsible for about 8 to 11 chemotherapy explain in part the extremely favorable
percent of the DALYs lost in the 15-59 age group. cost-effectiveness and justify government intervention.
There are two effective approaches to treating TB: Because the cost of drugs, at $50 to $80 per patient, is
short-course chemotherapy, which uses three to five probably too high for the poor, public subsidy is espe-
drugs over six to eight months, and the "standard" cially warranted for low-income households.
course of two to three drugs taken over twelve to eigh-

ernment policies that emphasized the financing of tries. This reduction in the burden of disease
cost-effective clinical services directed especially at would be equivalent to saving the lives of more
the rural poor. than 9 million infants each year.
Benefits, costs, and financing of the essential clinical Delivery of the minimum clinical package would
package cost an average of about $8 per person each year in
Widespread adoption of the minimum clinical low-income countries and about $15 in middle-
package would have a tremendous positive effect income countries. Approximately half of these
on the health of people in developing countries. If amounts would be for prenatal and delivery care
alone. When the cost of selected public health in-
80 percent of the population were reached, 24 per- terventions is added, total costs rise to $12 per cap-
cent of the current burden of disease in low- ita in low-income countries and $22 in middle-
income countries and 11 percent in middle-income income countries. The differences are the result of
countries could be averted (Table 5.3). When the different demographic structures, epidemiological
minimum clinical package is combined with the conditions, and labor costs in the two settings.
public health package outlined in Chapter 4, the In low-income countries, where governments
share of current illness that could be eliminated typically spend about $5.50 per person for health
rises to approximately 32 percent in low-income and where total health expenditures are about
countries and 15 percent in middle-income coun- $14 per person (Figure 5.2), the affordability of the

116


--- Page 131 ---
Table 5.3 Estimated costs and health benefits of selected public health and clinical services in low-
and middle-income countries, 1990

Annual cost (dollars)' Per capita costas share of Disease burden
Per case or Per income per averted
Country group and package per participant Per capita DALY capita (percent) (percent)"
Low-income (per capita income = $350)
Public health packager 4.2 - 1.2 8
Minimum essential package of clinical services - 7.8 - 2.2 24
Short-course chemotherapy for tuberculosis 500 0.6 3-5 1
Management of the sick child 9 1.6 30-50 14
Prenatal and delivery care 90 3.8 30-50 4
Family planning 12 0.9 20-30 3
Treatment of STDs' 11 0.2 1-3 1
Limited caree 6 0.7 200-350 1
Total, public health and clinical services 12.0 - 3.4 32
Middle-income (per capita income = $2,500)
Public health packager - 6.8 0.3 4
Minimum essential package of clinical services - 14.7 - 0.6 11
Short-course chemotherapy for tuberculosis 275 0.2 5-7 1
Management of the sick child 8 1.1 50-100 4
Prenatal and delivery care 255 8.8 60-110 3
Family planning 20 2.2 100-150 1
Treatment of STDsd 18 0.3 10-15 1
Limited care' 13 2.1 400-600 1
Total, public health and clinical services - 21.5 - 0.9 15
Note: Figures assume coverage of 80 percent of the population.Average costs.

Marginal benefits.
Includes EPI Plus; school health including deworming, micronutrient supplementation, and health education; information on health, nutrition,
and family planning; tobacco and alcohol control programs; monitoring and surveillance; vector control; and programs for prevention of AIDS.Benefits were calculated assuming an AIDS epidemic comparable to that in Sub-Saharan Africa today.
Limited care includes assessment, advice, alleviation of pain, treatment of infection and minor trauma, and treatment of more complicated
conditions as resources permit.
Source: World Bank calculations.

Because the poorest countries spend far less on health than do middle-income countries and the public share is
smaller, thei have fewer resources available forreallocation.

Figure 5.2 Public financing of health services in low and middleincome countries, 1990

El l'ublic and private spending Public spending

Health spending per capita
(1990 dollars) Percentage of GNP
120 100 80 60 40 20 0 0 1 2 3 4

Lowincome
countries

Middleincome
countries

Source: Appendix table A.9.

117


--- Page 132 ---
$12 minimum package is problematic. Paying for sential package, some degree of targeting is almost
the package would require an increase in public inevitable. In countries where the wealthy do not
spending for health (part of which could be fi- use government-financed services because of the
nanced by donors in the short term), as well as a greater quality and convenience of privately f i-
reorientation of current government expenditure nanced services, targeting may be fairly easy. In
for health from discretionary to essential care. In other cases, however, user charges will have to be
middle-income countries, where public spending applied selectively, relying on means testing and
for health averages about $62 per person, the other targeting devices (see Box 5.5). Special ame-
$22 minimum package is financially feasible if nities in teaching hospitals, for example, can be
there is adequate political commitment to shift ex- priced at or above cost, since they will be con-
isting resources in the direction of public health sumed exclusively by the wealthy. User charges
and essential clinical care. Indeed, upper-middle- can help generate additional revenues for the es-
income countries can afford public finance of an sential package, amounting to perhaps 10 to 20
essential package that goes well beyond this percent of total government spending for health.
minimum. Finally, directing donor funding to public health
Who should pay for the essential clinical pack- and essential clinical care can significantly expand
age? There are strong efficiency arguments for di- the total resource basket available for the mini-
rect financing by developing country governments mum package.
of the selected public health interventions dis- User charges for public health services in devel-
cussed in Chapter 4. A number of the essential oping countries have sparked much debate since
clinical services, including treatment of tuber- the World Bank endorsed the concept in 1987 in a
culosis and STDs, have large positive externalities. policy study on health financing. Critics argue that
What is more important is that the poor are dispro- fees restrict access to care, especially for the poor.
portionately affected by the disease burden of the Yet many developing countries, particularly in
conditions listed in Table 5.3 and that, because of Sub-Saharan Africa, have been forced to rely in-
larger family sizes, they would benefit dispropor- creasingly on fees to supplement strained budgets.
tionately from prenatal, delivery, and childhood Studies on the effect of user fees are inconclusive
services. Public finance of a basic package of ser- and contradictory. One reason is that some re-
vices is an effective mechanism for reaching the searchers have failed to calculate the true cost to
poor. patients of treatment at government clinics. People
The main problem with universal government often pay dearly for supposedly "free" health
financing of an essential package is that it leads to care. Recent household surveys in India, Indo-
public subsidies to the wealthy, who could afford nesia, and Viet Nam indicate that each visit to a
to pay for their own services, with the result that government health center actually costs patients
fewer government resources go to serve the poor. two to three times the amount of the low official
A policy of concentrating public resources on ser- fees. Bribes aside, the indirect costs such as trans-
vices for the poor and requiring others to pay all or port and the opportunity cost of time spent seek-
part of their own costs makes sense on equity ing care are substantial.
grounds but also has some disadvantages. Often, Since patients are already paying for supposedly
the administrative costs of targeting are high, and free or low-cost health care, new user fees, when
the exclusion of wealthy and middle-income accompanied by a reduction in indirect costs and
groups can erode political support for the essential improvement of services, may increase utilization.
package, causing a decline in funding and quality Recent studies in four African countriesBenin,
of care. Furthermore, problems of cost escalation Cameroon, Guinea, and Sierra Leoneindicate
and access to insurance on the part of high-risk that this is the case and, encouragingly, that the
groupsdiscussed in Chapter 3can complicate poor benefited most from these changes. Since fa-
reliance on private finance. Perhaps for these rea- cilities used fees to fund services not previously
sons, most member governments of the OECD fi- available locally, poor patients avoided costly
nance (or mandate finance of) comprehensively travel, and the actual cost of care declined. Studies
defined essential packages for virtually all their indicate that user fees amounting to less than 1
citizens. percent of annual household income have little im-
In low-income countries, where current public pact on the utilization of health services, even by
spending for health is less than the cost of an es- the poor. Because higher fees do decrease utiliza-

118


--- Page 133 ---
Box 5.5 Targeting public expenditure to the poor

When public spending on health is not targeted to the tively well-off. Targeting public finance to those not
pooras often happens, according to numerous participating in social insurance will reach the poor,
studiesno other source of funds is likely to compen- and administration will be relatively simple. In coun-
sate. Which targeting mechanisms work best in prac- tries with established social insurance mechanisms,
tice will depend on their impact on demand, their ad- this targeting mechanism will often prove best.
ministrative costs, their technical and managerial Let individuals self-target. The essential services
requirements, and the level of political support. In are available free of charge to all, but the program is
countries where incomes are too low for a minimum designed in such a way as to deter the better-off from
essential package to be provided universally, there are using them. Time costs, stigma, and fewer amenities
four main mechanisms for targeting the essential pack- associated with services are the usual mechanisms for
age of services: encouraging self-targeting. Unfortunately, these same
Assess individuals seeking services on the basis of characteristics may discourage the poor as well as the
income, nutritional status, or other criteria and, de- better-off. Low-income working mothers, for example,
pending on the assessment, provide services from the may find that the time, for themselves and their chil-
essential clinical package free of charge or according to dren, involved in using subsidized services is an insur-
a sliding scale of fees. In evaluating income, direct mountable obstacle.
measurements or proxies (such as housing characteris- Target by type of service. Offer free of charge, or
tics) can be used, but this tends to be more adminis- subsidize heavily, services that are needed dispropor-
tratively costly than other mechanisms. tionately by the poor. This sort of targeting mechanism
Subsidize essential clinical services for easily iden- is inherent in much of the essential package of clinical
tified subgroups of the population (for example, all services. Prenatal and delivery services, management
those living in certain low-income regions or neighbor- of the sick child, and STD and tuberculosis treatment
hoods or all children in public schools). Where social are all services that, if universally available, would es-
insurance mechanisms (usually financed through pay- pecially benefit the poor.
roll taxes) exist, they generally tend to cover the rela-

tion, reducing charges or exempting the poor from ary clinical health careservices outside the essen-
the fees may be warranted. tial packageis far less compelling. In fact, gov-
In middle-income countries, where a significant ernments can promote both efficiency and equity
part of the population may be covered by private by reducingor, when possible, eliminating
or social insurance, governments can target public public funding for these services. Doing so re-
monies to essential clinical services for the poor by quires recovering the cost of discretionary services
legally defining and mandating that the national provided in government health facilities and cut-
essential package be covered in all insurance poli- ting subsidies to private and public insurance
cies, thereby freeing government resources to tar- schemes that finance discretionary care. By reduc-
get the poor. Surprisingly, emerging managed care ing spending on these services, governments can
institutions in developing countries often fail to concentrate public expenditure where it will do the
cover benefits that would be in such an essential most goodin public health and cost effective clin-
package. In the 1980s in Brazil, for example, many ical services.
health maintenance organizations failed to include Out-of-pocket payments are the main source of
immunizations and family planning in the basic financing for discretionary care in low-income
benefits package for their clienteles. countries. They remain substantial in middle-
income countries, but insurance becomes increas-
Insurance and finance of discretionary clinical ingly important as incomes rise. Because, except
services for the very rich, out-of-pocket financing cannot
cover expensive care or deal with catastrophic ill-
Public financing of a national essential clinical ness, widespread financing of discretionary care is
package can be justified because the package cre- possible only through insurance. Countries have
ates positive externalities and reduces poverty. two main options for meeting a growing demand
The case for government financing of discretion- and need for insurance. One is to move toward the

119


--- Page 134 ---
current U.S. system, which relies substantially on the Philippines, a combination of limited private
private voluntary insurance. The other is to follow insurance and the ability of upper-income groups
the examples of Canada, Japan, and most Eu- to pay makes it feasible for governments to charge
ropean countries, where general government reve- for discretionary care delivered in public hospitals.
nues or social insurance cover the cost of relatively In Kenya the government is currently attempting
comprehensive essential packages, leaving only a to recover the cost of caring for the insured at the
small discretionary residual for private insurance. national referral hospital in Nairobi. In Lesotho
Government policy can improve the functioning charges in the private ward of the central hospital
of insurance markets in three ways. It can strive to in Maseru were increased in 1990 to recover costs
eliminate unfair subsidies to insurance. It can from wealthier patients.
work to maximize the population covered by in- In middle-income countries insurance becomes
surance by preventing selection biasthe ten- more important as a mechanism for financing dis-
dency of insurers to discriminate against bad cretionary services. In South Africa private insur-
health risks. And it can help to eliminate another ance covers about 15 percent of the population and
potential problem with insurance: the explosive accounts for more than a third of total health
increases in health care costs that are closely asso- spending. In Brazil, even though everyone is eligi-
ciated with fee-for-service payment of health pro- ble for publicly financed health services, about a
viders by third-party insurers. fifth of the population is also privately insured.
Social insurance, in which payroll deductions are
Redirecting public funding from discretionary care earmarked for health care, is widespread in mid-
There is substantial scope in the developing world dle-income countries, especially in Latin America.
for redirecting current public spending away from Such payroll taxes account for a quarter or more of
discretionary services. Cost recovery in govern- national health spending in Costa Rica, Korea, and
Panama (Table 5.4). In countries with broader in-
ment hospitals, especially from the wealthy and surance coverage there is even greater potential for
insured, is one important mechanism. Even in cost recovery than in poorer countries. Public hos-
low-income countries, where insurance may ac- pitals in Chile are now being encouraged to
count for less than 5 percent of total health spend- charge, particularly for patients who have private
ing, as in Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Pakistan, and insurance.

Table 5.4 Social insurance in selected countries, 1990
(percent)

Share of population covered public sector health Social insurance as share of Health expenditure asSocial insurance as share of
Group and country by social insurance expenditure total health expenditure share of GNP
Low-income
India 5 9 2 6.0
Kenya 10 7 4 4.3
Indonesia 13 17 6 2.0
Middle-income
Dominican Rep. 6 9 6 3.7
Ecuador 9 11 7 4.1
Colombia 15 18 8 4.0
Paraguay 18 24 13 2.8
Philippines 38 12 6 2.8
Panama 50 55 43 7.1
Turkey 58 26 14 4.0
Costa Rica 82 85 62 6.5
Korea, Rep. of 90 50 25 6.6
High-income
Germany 75 76 63 8.0
Japan 100 64 56 6.5
France 100 95 71 8.9
Netherlands 100 94 73 7.9

Source: World Bank data; Mesa-Lago 1991; de Geyndt 1991; Vogel 1990; Brotowasisto and others 1988; Ikegami 1992; Hurst 1992; and Solon and
others 1992.

120


--- Page 135 ---
The other way to redirect government spending experience with such arrangements in developing
away from discretionary care is to phase out public countries.
subsidies to insurance. These subsidies, which are
large and widespread, take the form of both direct Eliminating unequal access to clinical care
budgetary transfers to insurance institutions and under insurance
tax concessions for employers' and employees' in-
surance contributions. They benefit the better-off A serious problem with relying on insurance to
and are therefore regressive. pay for discretionary care in developing countries
In Latin America governments in Guatemala, is that individuals and groups often have unequal
Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, and Venezuela access to insurance coverage. The problem is espe-
contribute a percentage of individual workers' cially acute with voluntary private insurance be-
wages to social security sickness and maternity cause of selection bias. When insurers rate individ-
funds. In Chile and Uruguay the government cov- ual risks, they often either refuse to insure the sick
ers the operating deficits of the funds, and in Co- and elderly or make insurance prohibitively ex-
lombia and El Salvador it pays directly for a part of pensive for these clients because their expected
the cost of social security health services and ad- costs are so high. They also commonly exclude
ministration. Private insurance in South Africa many health conditions that should ideally be cov-
and Zimbabwe receives large public subsidies in ered. In Brazil, for example, where government
the form of tax deductions for employer and em- regulation of insurance is weak, private insurers
ployee contributions. Fees to insured patients frequently refuse to enroll persons who are poor
using government hospitals in Zimbabwe are set health risks, and they fail to cover costly risks such
at perhaps a third to a quarter of actual costs, pro- as HIV-AIDS. In South Africa and Zimbabwe pri-
viding another subsidy to the better-off. vate health insurance schemes known as medical
Once subsidies to private and public insurance aid societies have historically covered entire indus-
are established, they are extremely difficult to tries and occupational groups, but the recent mar-
eliminate. Recipientsgenerally the better-off- keting of individual insurance policies has intro-
view them as an important benefit. The current duced discrimination based on risk. Selection bias
debate in the United States over reducing the em- is an important reason for the incomplete insur-
ployer tax deduction for contributions to medical ance coverage in the United States, where 37 mil-
insurance illustrates this strong political resis- lion people, or about 15 percent of the population,
tance. To date, very few developing countries have are uninsured.
successfully cut subsidies. An exception is Zim- Very few countries, developing or industrial,
babwe, where major political shiftsnational inde- have managed to eliminate selection bias under
pendence and the advent of a democratically elec- private insurance, even though it could theo-
ted government in 1980led to a significant retically be done by prohibiting insurers from rat-
scaling back of tax breaks for medical aid pre- ing individuals' health risks and requiring them to
miums. The Chilean government is actively con- rate only large groups, or "communities," in
sidering eliminating the existing tax concession for which high risks are spread over a large number of
employers' contributions to social insurance. people to minimize the cost effect of the risks.
Subsidies to insurance systems that cover only Eliminating selection bias is easier with social in-
part of the population are invariably regressive, surance because contributions are compulsory and
but subsidies can be progressive when insurance are normally a fixed percentage of wages for all
has become universal. At that point, public sub- employees regardless of their number of depen-
sidies end up benefiting mainly those outside the dents or their individual health risks. The snag is
formal labor force, notably the elderly and the that since compulsory insurance generally uses
poor. Examples of progressive subsidies are the 30 employment-based contributions, it is able to
percent of national social insurance funding that achieve broad coverage only when most of the eco-
the Korean government contributes on behalf of nomically active population is in the formal labor
low-income households and the 20 percent of Ja- force.
pan's social insurance spending that derives from Where only part of the population is covered by
government budget transfers for retirees and the insurance, as in most developing countries, access
poor. Governments could provide equally pro- to clinical services for the uninsured poor can be
gressive, targeted subsidies to buy regulated pri- much more difficult than for insured, better-off
vate health insurance for the poor, but there is no people. The quality of care, including essential

121


--- Page 136 ---
clinical services, may also be vastly inferior for the successfully upgraded separate clinical services
poor. In low-income Africa the wealthy consult targeted to the poor.
private doctors for their clinical care while the poor Containing the costs of clinical care
are often forced to use understaffed government
health centers that lack the most basic drugs and Escalating health spending is perceived as a crisis
equipment. In much of Latin America middle-class when it begins to crowd out other sectors of the
families receive better care in hospitals and clinics economy or to raise the cost of labor, threatening a
belonging to the social security agency than the country's international competitiveness. This is
poor are given in the badly deteriorated facilities currently happening in the United States and to a
run by the ministry of health. varying extent in other high-income countries (Box
One way to eliminate these disparities would be 5.6), and it is about to happen in several middle-
to put all health facilities under a single adminis- income developing countries, including Chile and
tration and open them to all. Few countries have Korea.
taken on this politically and administratively diff i- The sources of excess health costs and growth of
cult task. Costa Rica, in which the social security costs are complex and much debated. Health ser-
agency manages all government hospitals, is a rare vices have a high labor content, and their produc-
exception. Another solution is for the government tivity has grown slowly in comparison with that of
to focus spending on the poor by investing heavily other areas of the economy. In the United States
in the infrastructure (facilities, equipment, and relatively high levels of underlying morbidity and
transport) needed to improve essential clinical care greater amenities in hospitals are part of the rea-
for the poor and spending substantially more on son, but inefficiencies are also important. Two
the associated personnel and drugs. By focusing types of inefficiency stand out: high administrative
investments on peripheral health units (health costs and unnecessary use of an ever-expanding
centers, subcenters, and health posts) and on staff array of sophisticated and ever more costly tech-
for these facilities, Malaysia and Zimbabwe have nologies for diagnostic tests and surgical pro-

Box 5.6 Containing health care costs in industrial countries

In 1990 the United States devoted 12.7 percent of its mark, Germany, and Sweden) set overall limits on pay-
GNP to health, as against 9.1 percent in Canada, 8.9 ments to both doctors and hospitals. In the latter
percent in France, 8.0 percent in Germany, 6.5 percent group, the method of limiting payments to doctors
in Japan, and 6.1 percent in the United Kingdom. The varies widely: capitation in Britain, fee-for-service in
2.7 percent annual increase in the health-to-GNP ratio Germany, and salaries in Sweden. In Germany, as a
for the United States during the 1980s was the highest means of controlling expenditure, fees are reduced if
among the OECD countries. U.S. health expenditures the volume of services exceeds the anticipated level. In
of $2,800 per person in 1990 were nearly $1,000 above general, the OECD countries that have contained costs
the average for the OECD countries. The price of better have greater government control of health
health care services in relation to other goods and ser- spending and a larger public sector share of total health
vices also rose much more rapidly in the United States expenditures. This is also the case in eleven developing
(2.2 percent per year) than in the other OECD countries with income per capita of more than $6,000.
countries. In the poorer countries there is no apparent link be-
An important factor in explaining the rapid growth tween the public and private shares of health expendi-
in health care costs in the United States is that doctors ture and the proportion of income devoted to health.
and hospitals are paid predominantly on a fee-for-ser- In the U.S. health insurance system, with its large
vice basis. Countries experiencing moderate spending numbers of insurers reimbursing providers at different
growth (Canada and Japan) also use fee-for-service fot rates, administrative costs absorb about 15 percent of
outpatient physician care but have devised other ways health expenditures, compared with 5 percent or less
of controlling expenditures: a uniform fee structure in the other OECD countries. If the United States re-
and aggressive peer review of doctors' spending pat- duced its administrative outlays to the level in these
terns in Japan and fixed overall budgets for hospitals in other countries, a total of $80 billion annually could be
Canada. Countries with low levels of spending (the saved, equivalent to about a third of total health spend-
United Kingdom) or low recent growth of costs (Den- ing for all developing countries combined.

122


--- Page 137 ---
cedures. These two kinds of inefficiency appear to outstripping Korea's robust overall economic
be closely linked to basic features of the U.S. growth. The share of GNP devoted to health rose
health system. Open-ended fee-for-service com- from 3.7 percent in 1980 to 6.6 percent in 1990. By
pensation for health providers encourages the de- 1990 Korea was spending $377 per capita for
velopment of new equipment, drugs, and pro- health, putting it 50 percent above the expected
cedures and leads to exploding costs because level for its income.
neither providers nor patients have strong incen- To control health care costs, countries need to
tives to hold down utilization or spending. A com- limit payments to health care providers (Table 5.5).
plex system of multiple insurance institutions and One approach is to pay a fixed amount for each
other payers, each with its own procedures, raises person, as is now done by health maintenance or-
administrative overheads substantially. ganizations in Brazil and the United States and by
The findings concerning health cost escalation in the British National Health Service. Another
the United States and other industrial countries method, used in several OECD countries, is to
are especially relevant for middle-income develop- give each hospital or network of physicians a fixed
ing countries. Those countries are under pressure total budget (Box 5.7).
from medical professionals, manufacturers, and Insurers may jointly negotiate uniform fees for
consumers to use new medical technologies, and physicians, as is done by Japan's social insurance
they face difficult policy choices related to insur- system and by Zimbabwe's private insurance sys-
ance institutions and compensation of providers. tem. They can also set fixed payments for specified
Korea's problems with escalating health expendi- medical procedures or standard per diem pay-
tures parallel those of the United States and may ments for hospital stays. Brazil's social insurance
hold important lessons for other developing system, for example, is paying standard fees for
countries. hospital care according to a modified version of the
The Korean social insurance system is a nation- system of diagnostic-related groups that was de-
wide network of "sickness funds" covering occu- veloped in the United States for Medicare, the
pational and regional groups. Worker payroll con- government-funded system for the elderly. Chile's
tributions are compulsory. All Koreans are public health system is introducing comparable in-
covered, and the government subsidy to extend ternal prices for its hospitals.
coverage to the elderly and indigent is highly As worldwide experience amply demonstrates,
progressive. As in the United States, Korea's there is no perfect insurance system: every coun-
health providers are predominantly private-72 try's insurance institutions have their problems.
percent of physicians and 80 percent of hospital But there are two important generalizations: third-
beds are in this categoryand they are paid on a party insurance leads to cost escalation, and, in
fee-for-service basis. There is little control of the general, social insurance and regulated private in-
acquisition of medical technologies. Korea already surance with community rating avoid selection
has more sophisticated new medical equipment, bias far better than voluntary private insurance. It
such as imaging machines and lithotripters (used is difficult to achieve wide coverage of the popula-
to treat kidney stones), per capita than either Can- tion in most developing countries, and without
ada or Germany. During 1989-91 spending for wide coverage, public subsidies to insurance will
medical devices and diagnostic products grew by inevitably be regressive. Countries, whether they
more than 20 percent a year. As in Japan, physi- use social or private insurance, are finding it ex-
cians often sell the drugs they prescribe, and in- tremely hard to eliminate these deeply entrenched
surance reimburses the cost of nonprescription subsidies. Once widespread insurance coverage is
drugs, which creates strong incentives to over- achieved, costs can easily spin out of control un-
prescribe and overuse drugs. Prescription phar- less provider compensation is tightly regulated or
maceuticals now account for 36 percent of health determined in ways that give incentives for cost
spending, one of the highest shares anywhere. Fi- containment. Developing country governments
nally, the administrative costs associated with the must be prepared to deal forthrightly with this dif-
more than 300 independent insurance funds are 10 ficult set of interlocking issues.
to 20 percent of operating expenses, which is simi- Delivery of clinical services
lar to the administrative burden of private insur-
ance in the United States. Policies related to the delivery of health services in
All these causes contributed to a dramatic in- developing countries should have two main objec-
crease in health spending in the past decade, far tives. The first is to improve access to essential

123


--- Page 138 ---
Table 5.5 Strengths and weaknesses of alternative methods of paying health providers

Payment method Strengths Weaknesses

Fee for service Provider's reward closely linked to Tends to cause cost inflation
level of effort and output
Allows for easy analysis of Creates incentives for excessive and
provider's practice unnecessary treatment

Per case Provider's reward fairly well tied to Technical difficulty of forcing all cases
(for example, using output into standard list can lead to mismatch
diagnostic-related between output and reward
groups) Gives provider incentive to minimize Providers may misrepresent diagnosis
resource use per individual treated in order to receive higher payment

Capifation Administratively simple; no need to Gives provider incentive to select
(per patient under break down physician's work into patients based on risk and to reject
continuous care) procedures or cases high-cost patients
Facilitates prospective budgeting May create incentives for providerto underservice accepted patients

Gives provider incentive to minimize Difficult to analyze provider's practice
cost of treatment
Allows for consumer clout if patient
can select own provider

Salary Administratively simplest Loss of patient influence over provider
(straight payment per behavior unless patient choice links
period of work) provider salary to patient satisfaction

Facilitates prospective budgeting Can easily create incentives for provider
to underservice patient and to reduce
productivity

Source: Adapted from Reinhardt 1989.

clinical services, especially for the poor. The sec- low efficacy, and drugs and supplies are stolen or
ond is to increase the efficiency with which ser- go to waste in government warehouses and hospi-
vices are delivered. In the public sector inefficiency tals. Although the problems are many and deep,
is widespread. Clinics and outreach programs op- appropriate government policies can do much to
erate poorly because of shortages of drugs, trans- reduce or eliminate these kinds of inefficiency.
port, and maintenance. Hospitals are poorly orga- Most countries have mixed systems of both pub-
nized and managed and keep patients longer than lic and private delivery of clinical services and both
necessary. Countries pay too much for drugs of public and private financing. The type of financing

124


--- Page 139 ---
a country chooses does not dictate the kind of cient public sector health centers and district hos-
health delivery system it should have, or the other pitals (for example, in Chile, China, Sri Lanka, and
way around. Some countries, such as Botswana, Zimbabwe), and there are circumstances in which
Malaysia, Sweden, and the United Kingdom, have it is impossible or too costly to persuade the pri-
mainly public financing and public delivery; some, vate sector to deliver careparticularly in geo-
including Brazil and Korea, have public financing graphically remote or extremely poor areas.
and private delivery; and still others, such as the The existence of alternative suppliers, both pub-
Philippines, the United States, and Zaire, rely pri- lic and private, creates pressure for improved per-
marily on private financing and private delivery. formance. In developing countries where the pub-
The private health sector typically serves a di- lic system has a near-monopoly on health care
verse clientele, and it typically delivers services delivery, a mixed system that exposes the public
that are perceived to be high in quality and more services to competition is likely to be more efficient
responsive to consumer demand than the govern- and to improve quality of care. Furthermore, in
ment's. But there are also examples of highly effi- countries where government health services are

-S

Box 5.7 Health care reform in the OECD
The OECD countries face persistent difficulties in the ing the productivity of rationed resources. There has
financing and delivery of health services. Problems in- been some convergence of systems toward contracting
clude inequitable access to services, gaps in insurance between public insurers and private providers. Bel-
coverage, unacceptably rapid increases in health ex- gium and France have introduced tighter contracts into
penditure, inefficiency, and poor quality. These diffi- their reimbursement systems, and the United King-
culties are partly the result of circumstances outside the dom has moved away from its integrated National
control of governmentsfor example, demographic Health Service and toward more autonomous and
and technological change. To some extent, however, competitive physicians and hospitals. Other countries
they arise from flaws in the design of the financing, reformed the contractual model itself by emphasizing
payment, and regulation systems for health care. Dur- consumer choice, active informed purchasing rather
ing the 1980s most OECD countries initiated moderate than passive funding by third parties, and managed
or major reforms of their health care systems to correct competition among providers. These reforms are most
these flaws. marked in Germany, but elements of such changes
Three principal types of reforms can be distin- have also been implemented in Belgium and the
guished. Several countries, including Ireland, the Netherlands in the form of mixed payment systems
Netherlands, and Spain, have taken steps to extend eli- that combine budgetary caps with work-related pay-
gibility for public medical care, bringing the last remain- ment of providers.
ing groups of their populations into the public system Finally, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom
of coverage for basic medical care. Despite widespread have embarked on differing experiments to introduce
calls for privatization of finance, no country has re- competition within their public systems. In the Nether-
duced its commitment to public coverage. lands it is envisaged that consumers will be able to
Many governments have taken important initiatives choose among quasi-public sickness funds and private
to contain costs, through increased cost sharing or insurers, with a central health care fund taking income-
through supply-side reforms. Belgium, France, Ger- related premiums and paying out risk-related pre-
many, and the Netherlands have set fixed budgets for miums to the competing insurers. This amounts to a
hospital expenditure. Virtually all the OECD countries sophisticated health voucher scheme. In the United
greatly reduced the rate of growth of health expendi- Kingdom part of the hospital budget is given to large
tures during the 1980s. The biggest exception was the (competing) general practices, which will enable gen-
United States. Those countries that still relied to some eral practitioners to purchase certain hospital services
extent on the reimbursement of patients for medical on behalf of their patients. Since the reforms were in-
bills, with no connection between insurers and pro- troduced only recently in the United Kingdom and are
viders, were less successful in containing costs han being carried out gradually in the Netherlands, it is not
those in which insurers had direct contracts or in which yet possible to evaluate them fully. There are, however,
a public agency was both public insurer and health already signs that general practitioner "Iundholders"
provider. in the United Kingdom are using their new purchasing
Probably the most important reforms of the 1980s power to negotiate a higher quality of hospital services
involved the introduction of improved incentives and reg- for their patients.
ulations for providers and insurers, with the aim of rais-

125


--- Page 140 ---
Table 5.6 Policies to improve delivery of health care

Potential impact on
/
/ o
Provider and policy

Public sector

Protect nonsalary recurrent spending

Complete the district health delivery infrastructure

Retain fees at point of collection

Decentralize financial resources and operational authority

Subcontract ancillary services to private sector

Improve drug selection, procurement, and use

Nongovernmental organizations

Legalize and simplify registration
Provide government subsidies (per case, per diem, or block grants)
for essential clinical services

Subsidize training for district health workers

Private (for-profit) sector

Remove legal barriers to practice

Promote health maintenance organizations

Establish managed competition among suppliers

Regulate private hospitals and physicians
Provide public subsidies for essential clinical services and selected
public health interventions

Significant U Moderate 0 Modest 0 No significant impact

both overextended and excessively concentrated care facilities to the private sector. At the same
on discretionary care at the expense of essential time, governments have to improve the equity and
services for the poor, the public system needs to be efficiency of their remaining health programs and
scaled back. This means reducing public invest- facilities, through selective and progressive user
ment in tertiary care facilities and specialist train- charges, decentralization, managerial incentives,
ing and, in some cases, transferring discretionary and better information systems. The key policies

126


--- Page 141 ---
for improving delivery of clinical services by gov- operating expenditures for its thirteen predomi-
ernment, NGO, and private for-profit providers nantly rural health regions. Countries can also
are shown in Table 5.6. protect nonsalary spending by introducing more
Delivering the essential package flexibility into their hiring arrangements. In India
the Ministry of Health is planning to hire 8,000
In a competitive health system, people seeking workers for a leprosy control project on a per diem
health services can choose from a diversity of pro- basis rather than engage them as civil servants
viderspublic, private nonprofit, and private for- with virtual lifetime guarantees of employment.
profit. As developing countries move toward such Another policy for ensuring adequate spending
a competitive system, they face a wide range of on essential clinical services for the poor is to allow
policy options that can improve the delivery of the primary care facilities to retain user charges and
essential clinical package. spend these revenues on drug supplies and incen-
tive bonuses for health workers. In Cameroon
THE PUBLIC SECTOR. For many countries an im- when fees were introduced in a group of rural
portant step in improving access to government- health centers and the revenues collected were
provided essential clinical services is to complete used to replenish drug supplies, utilization of the
the basic district health infrastructure by building centersespecially by low-income familiesin-
health centers and health posts and training more creased substantially. The percentage of sick peo-
nurses, midwives, and other providers of primary ple living near those centers who sought care rose
care. Provision of good-quality housing for rural by more than 25 percent compared with the areas
health workers as part of the district health infra- where fees were not charged, demonstrating that
structure can improve efficiency by encouraging user fees can actually increase services for the
staff to move to rural areas. Zimbabwe doubled poor.
the number of its rural health centers, from 500 to
more than 1,000, during the period 1980-90 with NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS. Private
the goal of making essential clinical services avail- nonprofit institutions, both local and foreign, pro-
able within 8 kilometers of home for the whole vide a significant share of health services in devel-
population. When housing for rural physicians oping countries, delivering essential clinical ser-
and nurses was added to the district health pro- vices to low-income households in the poorest
gram in the mid-1980s, the effect on staff recruit- countries. NGOs provide a third or more of all
ment and retention was enormous: vacancy rates clinical care in Cameroon, Ghana, Malawi,
for physicians and nurses in the areas with new Uganda, and Zambia. They own a quarter of the
housing fell to zero, as against 20 to 30 percent health facilities in Bolivia's three largest cities, and
elsewhere. they supply more than 10 percent of clinical ser-
Government recurrent spending for primary vices in India and Indonesia. Although it is diffi-
care inputs other than salaries is particularly vul- cult to compare the performances of NGO and
nerable to budget cuts. When revenue shortfalls government health facilities, recent data from Af-
occuror tertiary care hospitals overspendser- rica suggest that NGOs are often more efficient
vices in peripheral facilities and communities often than the public sector. In Uganda physicians in
suffer. In countries such as Chad, Haiti, Mozam- church mission hospitals treated an average of five
bique, and Nepal there are widespread reports of times as many patients as physicians in govern-
health centers that have staff but few or no drugs ment facilities, and NGO nurses attended more
and of mobile health teams with little or no gas- than twice as many patients as their government
oline for their vehicles. Under these circumstances counterparts. Governments that have excluded
technical efficiency falls to near zerogovern- NGOs or heavily restricted their operations have
ments continue to pay staff salaries, but virtually seen essential services deteriorate. When Mozam-
no meaningful health services can be delivered. bique decided after independence in 1975 to ban
Protecting the nonsalary part of the budget is NGO health activities in favor of government-run
extremely difficult but critical. In Senegal the gov- facilities, a wide range of health services in rural
ernment is currently committed to increasing its areas suddenly disappeared. Where such bans or
budgetary allocation for drugs and medical sup- barriers to NGO activity exist, they should be
plies by 10 percent a year in real terms during removed.
1992-96. Mauritania has set targets for annual gov- Beyond this, there are important opportunities
ernment spending on drugs and other nonsalary for governments to form constructive partnerships

127


--- Page 142 ---
with NGOs to deliver essential clinical services. small-town families are prepared to pay for good
One approach being followed in Sub-Saharan Af- care. The average outpatient visit costs $2 and a
rica and in some states of India is to incorporate normal delivery $8.
NGO health centers into the network of public f a- In Africa and Asia traditional medicine remains
cilities by nominating appropriately located NGO an important part of the health care system, some-
hospitals as district (first level of referral) hospi- times accounting for more than 10 percent of total
tals. The NGOs are expected to provide a range of spending. The number of traditional healersin-
public health and clinical services and to perform cluding herbalists, bonesetters, faith healers, and
specific districtwide functions such as health plan- traditional birth attendantsis typically many
ning, supervision of lower-level clinics and com- times larger than the number of medical physi-
munity activities, and maintenance of emergency cians. The ratio of traditional to modern health
transport. In return, the government pays some of practitioners has been estimated at nine to one in
the NGOs' costs. Sri Lanka, seventeen to one in Indonesia, twenty-
This kind of government-NGO collaboration five to one in Ghana, and twenty-eight to one in
takes a variety of forms. In Lesotho nine of the Nigeria. Under these circumstances there may be
country's eighteen health service areas (districts) opportunities for governments to improve the de-
are headed by a church mission hospital that car- livery of essential health services by using tradi-
ries out comprehensive health planning and man- tional practitioners. Successful examples include
agement for its entire area. In Zimbabwe govern- the use of traditional healers to screen for malaria
ment funds for rural health improvement are and to distribute antimalarial drugs in Thailand, to
being used to expand mission ("designated dis- promote modern contraceptives in Kenya, and to
trict") hospitals and to purchase ambulances for distribute condoms to reduce HIV and STD trans-
the NGOs. Ministries of health pay the salaries of mission in Uganda and Zimbabwe. Traditional
nursing staff in mission hospitals in Zaire and birth attendants have also been enlisted to im-
most of the recurrent costs of NGO facilities in prove pregnancy outcomes in many countries, in-
Botswana. Government donation of free vaccines cluding Bangladesh (Box 5.8).
and contraceptives to NGO health providers has Making delivery of clinical services more efficient
also become a common way to target public sub-
sidies to specific health intervention programs. There are many routes by which developing coun-
tries can improve the efficiency of clinical services.
THE PRIVATE SECTOR. In recognition of the grow- Policies to increase the efficiency of government
ing importance of the modern private sector in health services through decentralization and better
developing countries' health systems, some gov- hospital management could have an especially
ernments have begun to encourage private practi- large positive effect, as could policies for strength-
tioners to deliver essential services. In India sev- ening government regulation of a more competi-
eral states and nonprofit groups are working with tive private sector.
the private sectorincluding the country's 1 mil-
lion semiqualified urban and rural medical practi- DECENTRALIZATION. A policy that can improve
tionersto improve the quality and effectiveness both efficiency and responsiveness to local needs
of basic care. Some innovative approaches are be- is decentralization of the planning and manage-
ing tried: private distribution outlets are being ment of government health services. In Africa
stocked with condoms and oral rehydration solu- some central ministries of health have given pro-
tion to make both more widely available, and the vincial and district offices responsibility for plan-
Indian Rural Medical Association is trying to im- ning, day-to-day management of funds, person-
prove the skills of rural private practitioners nel, training, maintenance, and other functions.
through education on such subjects as family plan- Many problems have arisen: local governments or
ning, immunization, and oral rehydration. In local offices of the central health ministry have not
Mali, one of the world's poorest countries, the lo had the capacity to plan and manage health activ-
cal medical school has started a program to train ities; devolution of responsibility has not always
graduates to set up private practices in small been accompanied by allocation of the needed
towns of 15,000 to 50,000 inhabitants. Although funds; and local officials have not necessarily been
experience is recent, a number of physicians have accountable to their constituents. There have been
already established successful private practices in some successes, however, that offer lessons for
these towns, and they have demonstrated that other countries.

128


--- Page 143 ---
Box 5.8 Traditional medical practitioners and the delivery of essential health services
Many simple health activities do not require extensive outreach workers, the volunteers improve case detec-
professional training or major facilities and equipment. tion and save the government considerable expense.
Health workers based in clinics or in their own commu- A WHO study found that traditional healer volun-
nities play an important role in delivering these ser- teers in Thailand were more active in pursuing and
vices. The millions of community-based traditional identifying malaria cases than other volunteers and
health practitioners have enormous potential as public that they tended to remain in the program longer be-
health workers and providers of essential clinical ser- cause their service enhanced their standing in the Com-
vices if governments can give them the appropriate munity. Villagers indicated that they felt more confi-
training, information, and incentives. dent about having someone they already knew as the
Thus far, the experience with modern-traditional col- village traditional healer draw their blood and adminis-
laboration has been mixed. A number of projects have ter treatment.
failed because of poorly designed training and inade- In western Kenya the African Medical and Re-
quate supervision, and many governments need to do search Foundation (AMREF) has trained male and fe-
more to curb unnecessary and dangerous practices by male traditional health practitioners who live in remote
traditional healers. But there have also been instructive villages to dispense drugs and some types of contra-
successes. ceptives. Since the project began, the share of women
An evaluation of workers participating in a volun- of reproductive age using modern contraception in six
teer program for detection of malaria in northern Thai- pilot sites has risen from less than 10 percent to more
land found that the performance of volunteers who than 25 percent. The Kenyan government has asked
were traditional healers was superior to that of other AMREF to expand the project.
volunteers. The program, which began in 1961, had by In Bangladesh a program to train and support mid-
1988 more than 40,000 malaria-control volunteers dis- wives to work with traditional birth attendants helped
tributed across 34,000 Thai villages. Volunteers trained to lower maternal mortality rates by 60 percent over a
by the Ministry of Health are expected to examine vil- ten-year period. The results of the program indicate
lagers, take blood samples, prepare smears to be sent that, given adequate support systems, community-
to the district malaria clinic for analysis, and treat fever. based services could bring about a substantial decline
They also provide malaria-related education to the vil- in maternal mortality.
lagers. In comparison with alternatives such as paid

In Ghana, until recently, decisions on health sponsibility for primary care to local district coun-
spending were highly centralized, with inflexible cils. The process began on a pilot basis in 1973 and
expenditure levels set by the Ministry of Health for was gradually expanded to cover the entire coun-
specific "vertical" programs such as immuniza- try. To support decentralization, the Ministry of
tion, control of tuberculosis and leprosy, and fam- Health funded the creation of district health teams
ily planning. In the late 1980s the ministry agreed consisting of a medical officer, a public health
to delegate financial authority to health teams in nurse, and a health inspector. The central govern-
each of the country's 110 districts. Unfortunately, ment continues to finance, through annual block
most district health officials did not know the pro- grants, most of the recurrent primary care expen-
cedures for obtaining and accounting for funds. To ditures of the district councils, and the councils'
remedy this problem, members of the district proposals for capital spending are included in the
health management teams were given training ministry's investment budget. But the day-to-day
that enabled them to make more timely budgeting management of primary care centers, including
and spending decisions, and expenditure levels in- purchases of supplies and hiring of personnel, is
creased as much as fivefold. In districts where ear- in the hands of the councils.
marked funds from the center were pooled and Those countries that have gone furthest in de-
reallocated according to local priorities, technicil centralization have devolved responsibility for
efficiency improved because of joint planning of health servicesincluding implementation of gov-
work schedules and sharing of transport for out- ernment health programs and management of
reach services and supervision. government health facilitiesto subriational levels
In Botswana, although secondary and tertiary of government. Such devolution has been going
health care is the responsibility of the central Min- on for many years in some large developing coun-
istry of Health, the government has devolved re- tries with federal systems of government (for ex-

129


--- Page 144 ---
ample, Brazil, India, Mexico, and Nigeria), but it is ficient systems that conform to the expected pat-
also becoming increasingly common in a number tern. But in others, such as Indonesia, Jamaica,
of other Latin American countries and in the for- and Lesotho, there are no significant differences
merly socialist economies. between the different types of hospitals. In Papua
The gradual devolution of Chile's health system New Guinea the ideal pattern is reversed: the low
over the past decade suggests that success can be turnover rate for district hospitals implies that the
achieved through a measured process accom- hospitals either have too many beds or offer such
panied by training and institutional development. poor services that patients go directly to higher
Chile began the progressive decentralization of its levels. The shorter average stay at the tertiary hos-
publicly provided health services in 1979, when pital suggests that many patients who do not re-
twenty-six health service areas (HSAs) were estab- quire tertiary care are treated there.
lished to cover the country's thirteen administra Disparities in average length of stay across hos-
tive regions. Each HSA was given responsibility pitals with a similar mix of cases are another indi-
(and, to go with it, additional personnel and a cation of substantial inefficiencies. Data from Latin
share of the health budget) for managing all the America for 1980-85 show that average stays in
government health facilities in its area. The second hospitals run by ministries of health varied from
step in decentralization was taken in 1987, when five days in Colombia to thirteen days in Uruguay,
management of the primary care network (consist- and stays in social insurance hospitals varied from
ing of more than 2,500 urban and rural clinics, five days in Mexico to twelve days in Peru. In pub-
rural health posts, and rural medical stations as lic hospitals in Argentina the average length of
well as about 14,000 health personnel) was trans- stay ranged from eight to twenty-seven days. In
ferred to the local government or municipalities. Malawi average stays in six government hospitals
The HSAs were responsible for monitoring the with a similar case mix varied from five to thirteen
municipalities' actions. In a third phase of the de- days.
centralization process, scheduled to begin in late To remedy these inefficiencies, major steps to
1993, the central Ministry of Health will withdraw improve the organization and management of
completely from service provision, leaving this public hospitals are required. One approach
task entirely to the HSAs, which will enter into would be to delegate responsibility for health ser-
formal performance contracts with the ministry. vice delivery to individual public institutions, but
But not all decentralization has been a success. doing so will require changes in accounting and
Countries such as Colombia that have devolved management practices. Government health bud-
responsibility in a short period of time, without gets are now often highly aggregated, covering all
the requisite financial resources and institutional facilities and programs in a given district, region,
capacity at lower levels of government, have or even country. This prevents any detailed analy-
found that decentralization can be counterproduc- sis of spending and services. Tracking costs should
tive, aggravating existing inefficiencies and ineq- become part of the responsibility of the facility
uities in the health system. In Brazil the munici- manager and the district management team. Cost
pality of Rio de Janeiro refused to accept analysis would make it easy for these managers to
responsibility for all the "decentralized" federal monitor areas of over- or underfunding and for
health facilities within its borders on the grounds higher-level officials to compare cost profiles and
that federal budget transfers to the municipality unit costs.
were inadequate. Some countries have converted public hospitals
into semiautonomous foundations or public enter-
IMPROVEMENT OF HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT. Low prises in order to improve performance by grant-
rates of hospital utilization in developing countries ing greater budgetary and management auton-
point to significant inefficiencies in the use of omy. These foundations or parastatals are under
buildings and equipment (to which scarce capital fewer restrictions than public facilities in manag-
has been devoted). Most common medical condi- ing their budgets and sometimes in hiring and fir-
tions can be treated in relatively simple facilities. ing. They can recover costs and collect charitable
In a well-run hospital system district hospitals donations. The Tunisian government, for exam-
would have the highest turnover rates and the ple, has converted eleven large public hospitals
shortest stays, while tertiary hospitals would have into semiautonomous entities over the past two
the lowest turnover rates and the longest stays. years and will convert another ten in the next few
Some countries, including China and Fiji, have ef- years. Under the new arrangement, each hospital

130


--- Page 145 ---
manages its own operational budget and is free to when they are already sick or have a pressing
reassign funds across budget categories as needed. health problemand because, in the case of third-
To ensure accountability, the hospital is required to party reimbursement, they do not bear the full
operate within its annual budget and to provide to cost of the services they consume.
the Ministry of Health detailed reports about ser- Governments can encourage efficiency-pro-
vices provided and unit costs. Autonomy in per- moting competition among suppliers of health ser-
sonnel matters is more limited. All staff except the vices by requiring them to offer a standard pack-
general manager are still governed by civil service age of services at a price fixed in advance.
regulations. The hospital management cannot fire Consumers can then pick the supplier that offers
employees, but it can ask the ministry to reabsorb the most attractive combination of price, service,
staff and can use contracted personnel instead. and quality, with competition spurring suppliers
The effect of these reforms will be fully assessed to improve quality and reduce costs. This is the
over the next few years, but some gains in effi- basic approach taken in "managed competition"
ciency are already apparent. One of the first hospi- proposals for health care reform in the United
tals converted has fully contracted out all food, States (Box 5.9). Although managed competition
cleaning, and security functions and now obtains requires a high degree of government administra-
services of much higher quality, at similar or even tive capacity to set the rules and to monitor pro-
lower unit cost. vider performance, it may be relevant in some
Elsewhere too, an increasing body of evidence middle-income developing countries.
suggests that the technical efficiency of govern- As developing countries take steps to encourage
ment health facilities can be improved by contract- a diversified system of health service delivery, in-
ing out ancillary services. In Venezuela, for exam- cluding use of NGOs and private providers, they
ple, Health Ministry hospitals contract out will also need to strengthen their governments'
maintenance of large equipment, and social secu- capacity to regulate the private sector. Regulations
rity hospitals frequently contract for laundry, gar- are required to ensure that quality standards are
dening, food services, and security, as well as for met, that financial fraud and other abuses do not
maintenance. This arrangement has several ad- take place, that those entitled to care are not de-
vantages. It can be less costly than publicly pro- nied services, and that confidentiality of medical
vided services; services can be of better quality; information is respected. Regulation can be carried
and they can be more reliable (because less subject out in a number of ways: by inspecting private
to strikes and other industrial action). health facilities; by accrediting medical schools; by
licensing physicians, nurses, and other health pro-
COMPETITION AND REGULATION. Competition fessionals; and by prohibiting certain insurance
among health providers in developing countries practices such as exclusion of prior medical condi-
can improve the quality of services as perceived by tions. When the government allocates funds to
patients and thus increase consumer satisfaction. NGOs, reimburses private providers under public
This applies to the poor as well as the rich: compe- insurance schemes, or subcontracts with the pri-
tition among private physicians in the slums of vate sector for ancillary services such as catering
Bombay, for example, is intense, with private prac- and laundry, it can require an independent audit
titioners offering convenient evening hours, short of these private contractors.
waiting times, and readily available drugs to win In practice, few developing countries have es-
patients from other private practitioners and from tablished such regulatory mechanisms, but the sit-
public clinics. uation may be changing. In Brazil, where social
It is much less clear, however, whether competi- insurance finances the bulk of health care, and pri-
tion among suppliers of health services always vate hospitals and physicians provide 80 percent
leads to greater efficiency. In fact, the contrary of hospital services and half of all outpatient care,
sometimes happens, especially when competition important regulatory changes are now under dis-
among private providers is combined with third- cussion. These include comprehensive accredita-
party reimbursement of fees paid for services. Ex- tion of facilities by state governments, standard
cessive tests, procedures, and drugs are supplied, licensing examinations for medical school gradu-
and costs increase. This supplier-induced ineffi- ates, and the inclusion of representatives of citi-
ciency takes place because most patients are un- zens' groups and consumer advocacy organiza-
able to judge the value of specific services or to tions in medical ethics boards, which are currently
compare prices among suppliersall the more so composed exclusively of physicians. The private

131


--- Page 146 ---
Box 5.9 "Managed competition" and health care reform in the United States
'Managed competition," which has attracted wide- zation would enable consumers to choose among com-
spread interest in the United States, refers to a health peting packages in an informed and more price-
services purchasing strategy designed to promote com- conscious way. One example of "managed competi-
petition and to reward those health care providers with tion" is the California Public Employees Retirement
the best performance in terms of cost, quality, and pa- System, which operates like the proposed HIPC, ar-
tient satisfaction. The strategy is designed to address ranging health coverage and managing competition on
the fundamental problems of the current health care behalf of almost I million state employees and retirees
financing and delivery system in the United States. and their families.
There, health care coverage is mainly employment- Analysts expect that over time competition would
based and is far from universal: approximately 37 mil- force third_party insurers to drop out or move in the
lion people under age 65 lacked insurance coverage in direction of managed care networks because these net-
1990. Costs are increasing rapidly; if current trends works can use financial incentives and management
continue, spending is expected to grow from 12 to 18 tools to achieve efficient care. Indeed, insurers are al-
percent of GNP by 2000. Under third-party insurance, ready shifting in this direction: nearly half of all health
provider reimbursement methods often create financial insurers now offer some sort of plan involving man-
incentives to provide more care. Insurers seek profits aged care. Competition would also give health care
by excluding higher-risk individuals rather than by ag- providers clear incentives to become more efficient.
gressively pursuing greater efficiency in providing One question about the managed competition model is
health services. A major indirect cost of the system is whether it would work in rural areas and areas of low
reduced labor mobility as a result of the risks of exclu- population density, and, if not, what alternatives
sion from insurance at a new place of employment. would be best. Another concern is the cost of extend-
Under managed competition, a health insurance ing universal coverage.
purchasing cooperative (HIPC) would be formed to or- Although this proposal was developed to respond to
ganize purchasers of health care within a region. The the particular problems of the U.S. system, it has rele-
HIPC would establish standards for the region's health vance elsewhere. The Netherlands, which is introduc-
plan by, for example, defining a basic benefit package ing choice of insurer under a universal social health
of comprehensive health services, and would contract insurance scheme, faces the same challenges regarding
with eligible providers for this basic package. During control of risk-selection behavior on the part of in-
the annual open-enrollment period the HIPC would surers. Chile has, since 1981, encouraged the growth of
provide information about the price of the basic pack- private prepaid health insurance schemes, known as
age from different providers and about the quality of ISAPREs. (Box 7.2 provides details on these plans.)
care offered. Equity would be improved by requiring Problems have come up with Chile's reforms, how-
providers to open their rolls to all consumers, regard- ever: the lack of a standard package has limited effec-
less of risk. Universal coverage would be achieved tive competition, and weak regulation has allowed pri-
through public subsidies to those not otherwise cov- vate insurers to deny coverage to high-risk individuals.
ered so that they could purchase packages. Standardi-

Brazilian Association of Hospitals is debating the Reorienting clinical services and beyond
establishment of its own accreditation system, and
the medical association in São Paulo has begun a It is a fundamental responsibility of governments
voluntary pilot effort to certify hospitals in that everywhere to ensure access to a package of essen-
state on the basis of adherence to norms, assess- tial clinical health care, with special attention to
ment of patient data, and patient satisfaction sur- the poor. Utilization of a minimum package de-
veys. Qualifying examinations for licensing physi- fined by its high cost-effectiveness would reduce
cians are being tested in another state where, at the total burden of illness in developing countries
present, all medical school graduates are automaf- dramatically, by an average of 25 percent. Such a
ically licensed for life, without requirements for package is affordable in low-income countries if
continuing education or recertification. And the governments reallocate current health expendi-
Federal Council of Medicine has proposed legisla- tures and increase public spending and if they im-
tion that would expand its authority to monitor the plement policies that encourage selective pay-
quality of health care and to discipline poorly per- ments directly from better-off patients and from
forming doctors and hospitals. existing insurance schemes. Middle-income coun-

132


--- Page 147 ---
tries could easily pay for the minimum package, providers. Key government measures include
using the resources currently devoted to health, strengthening legal and financial support to
and might wish to enrich the package by adding NGOs that provide health services and creating a
services. positive environment for the private sector com-
Government efforts to improve health insurance bined with important regulatory safeguards
should be aimed at increasing the portion of the against abuse. Gains in technical efficiency can be
population covered, reducing subsidies for insur- achieved through a combination of careful decen-
ance that benefit primarily the wealthy and the tralization of government health services and im-
middle class, and controlling health care spending proved management of public hospitals.
financed from insurance. This will require stronger These efforts to reorient government recurrent
regulation of private insurance and policies to ex- spending toward essential clinical care and to pro-
pand compulsory social insurance based on pay- mqte diversity and competition in the supply of
roll taxes. It also means shifting provider payment health services must be accompanied by changes
away from open-ended fee-for-service methods to in longer-term investments in health inputsfacil-
prepayment through capitation and preset bud- ities and equipment, health personnel, phar-
gets for hospitals. maceutical management systems, health informa-
Greater diversity and competition in the supply tion, and health research infrastructure. Policies to
of health services can do much to improve the de- bring about this reorientation are taken up in
livery of an essential clinical package and raise the Chapter 6.
technical efficiency of doctors, hospitals, and other

133


--- Page 148 ---
Health inputs

In recent decades developing countries have in- spending subsidizes high-end facilities, equip-
vested heavily in health. Often with help from do- ment, and human resources for private markets.
nors, they have constructed hospitals and build- The challenge for public policy is to redress the
ings and purchased equipment to fill them. They balance and so permit the efficient delivery of pub-
have educated doctors, nurses, and other health lic health and essential clinical services. Where
care professionals. And they have set up new sys- cost containment of health spending is a concern,
tems to supply drugs, research, and information. public policy can play a useful role in limiting the
Worldwide, the number of hospital beds rose be- growth of both public and private investments in
tween 1960 and 1980 from 5 million to almost 17 specialist training, equipment, and tertiary facili-
million, which more than doubled the per capita ties. For some inputs, such as buildings and hu-
supply. The number of physicians increased more man resources, changes will necessarily be slow.
than fivefold between 1955 and 1990, from 1.2 mil- For others, such as pharmaceuticals, a new policy
lion to 6.2 million. Such investments have created can alter inputs rapidly. This chapter suggests how
new opportunities, but they have also led to to set about these tasks. It also assesses how public
problems. support for information and research can help
Once built, hospitals are extremely difficult to improve health sector performance today and
close. Once trained, physicians create pressure to create new health systems and technologies for
be employed. In virtually every developing coun- tomorrow.
try, facilities, equipment, human resources, and
drugs are skewed toward the top of the health Reallocating investments in facilities
system pyramid (Figure 6.1). Yet the cost-effective and equipment
public health and clinical interventions discussed
in preceding chapters of this Report are best deliv- Investments to support delivery of essential clini-
ered at the level of the district hospital or below. cal services are best directed at health centers and
That they are often delivered through tertiary hos- district hospitals and at improving access in under-
pitals simply increases costs without improving served areas. Some public investments in tertiary
quality. This problem is found in poor countries in facilities are needed to support research and train-
which the principal tertiary teaching hospital in ing, but at levels well below current levels of pub-
the capital city consumes a large proportion of the lic financing in most countries. Investments in spe-
total resources available for health. It is also found cialized facilities can be left largely to the private
in cities such as London, where numerous spe- sector, and public subsidies, where they exist, can
cialized teaching hospitals absorb large amounts often be greatly reduced. Redirecting public
of resources while failing to address the most spending toward lower-level facilities is difficult
common and pressing health problems of city politically, but some countries are moving in this
residents. direction. In Papua New Guinea, for example,
In many countries public investments are con- public spending on hospitals has for the past dec-
centrated unduly on tertiary services, and public ade been limited to 40 percent of the Ministry of

134


--- Page 149 ---
Most health care should.take place toward the bottom whole cityan example is Zambia's University
of this pyramid. Teaching Hospital of Lusaka, with 1,835 beds.
public spending on health in developing coun-Hospitals absorb the bulk-40 to 80 percentof

Figure 6.1 The health system pyramid: tries. Industrial countries have much higher health
where care is provided expenditures and more chronic disease problems,
but the share allocated to hospitals is slightly
smaller, 35 to 70 percent. Figure 6.2 shows the
marked variations in hospital supply across the
hospitals eight demographic regions used in this Report,
ASpecialized from about eleven beds per 1,000 population in
District A Central and Eastern Europe to less than one bed
District health per 1,000 population in India. In most developing
hospitals system countries more than 60 percent of all hospital beds
are public. The data used in Figure 6.2 unfor-
Health centers tunately fail to distinguish between tertiary and
and clinics district-level hospitals. The minimum package of
essential clinical services described in Chapter 5
Households requires about one district hospital bed per 1,000
population. Given that some of India's and Sub-
Saharan Africa's hospital beds are devoted to care
outside the essential package, there is likely to be a
shortage of district-level hospital beds in parts of
those regions.
In some countries the underfunding of lower-
Health's recurrent budget, which is well below the level facilities has been exacerbated by the creation
average in most developing countries. of multiple levels of outpatient facilities (health
posts, dispensaries, and rural health centers),
Facilities none of which functions well. At the same time,
tertiary care hospitals are crowded with patients
Tertiary hospitals provide the most specialized and who could be treated in less costly and more acces-
sophisticated services and are where most clinical sible district hospitals or health centers. A study in
research, education, and training take place. They Chad, for example, revealed that 71 percent of all
are usually located in large urban areas. One step central hospital consultations were for problems
down the health hierarchy are district hospitals, that could have been treated at lower-level facili-
which are typically located in towns or smaller ties. An obvious way to reduce spending without
cities serving rural areas but are valuable in large sacrificing any health gains is to make full use of
cities too. District hospitals generally have 100 to existing lower-level facilities. Measures for achiev-
400 beds, serve 50,000 to 200,000 inhabitants, and ing this include charging a higher fee to patients
include departments of medicine, surgery, pedi- who go straight to tertiary facilities without refer-
atrics, obstetrics and gynecology, and dentistry. rals, except in emergencies, and making a referral
They also provide basic anesthesia, radiology, and from the primary care provider a mandatory con-
clinical laboratory services. The district hospital is dition for specialized services. At the same time,
the first level of referral from health centers and however, the quality and responsiveness of ser-
provides complementary services such as basic vices at lower-level facilities need to be improved.
surgery. It mainly offers inpatient care but also
typically provides some outpatient care, day sur- INCENTIVES AND INVESTMENT DECISIONS. Public
gery (in which the patient is operated on and dis- sector budgetary procedures often obscure the real
charged on the same day), and emergency services costs of investments in health facilities and bias
not available at health centers. In many cities that them toward high-profile investments in large
have grown rapidly over the past twenty years, hospitals. Major investments, including donor-
periurban areas do not have enough health centers financed projects, may be approved by a govern-
and district hospitals. In some African capitals one ment body that does not have to face the recurrent
extremely large tertiary public hospital serves the costs of operating the facility. Regions can argue

135


--- Page 150 ---
Installed hospital ca pacify is lowest in India, Sub-Saha ran Africa, and Asia and highest in the formerly socialist
economies of Europe.

Figure 6.2 Hospital capacity by demographic region, about 1990

Beds per 1,000 population
0 2 4 6 8 10 12

Sub-Saharan Africa
India
China
Other Asia and islands
Latin America and the Caribbean
Middle Eastern crescent
Formerly socialist economies of Europe
Established market economies

Source: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development data; World Health Organization data.

for new facilities without having to weigh the bud- zations (HMOs) in the United States have incen-
getary consequences if federal-state resource tives for providing care efficiently. As a result,
transfers, instead of following predictable and they operate with much less hospital infrastruc-
transparent funding formulas (such as population- ture than the health system overall. Large HMOs
based schemes), are heavily politicized. (with hospitals) have about 1.5 hospital beds per
International assistance has frequently exacer- 1,000 memberswell below the average of 8 beds
bated the problem of unsustainable health invest- per 1,000 for established market economies and 5
ments. Donor assistance, particularly for tertiary for the United States overall and slightly below
facilities and teaching hospitals, has sometimes regional averages for China and Latin America.
been provided even if the incremental recurrent Evidence indicates that quality of care in HMOs is
costs from these investments are too high. Too maintained even with significantly lower levels of
many donor-financed hospitals have opened only hospitalization and hospital infrastructure. Pri-
partially, not at all, or at the expense of existing vately financed health insurance with uncon-
facilities. In Rwanda, for example, a 200-bed hos- strained fee-for-service payment, by contrast, pro-
pital was completed in 1991 but has not yet opened vides no incentives to rationalize physical capacity.
because of the difficulty of financing its high recur-
rent costs, which are estimated at about 15 percent DUPLICATION OF HEALTH FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC
of the Ministry of Health's already tightly con- SECTOR. Excess public facilities in urban areas are a
strained budget. In Chad, where external assis- problem in many countries. The historical growth
tance amounts to about 30 percent of national in- of hospitals, especially in capital cities, has led to a
come, a national development plan proved useful proliferation of specialist tertiary services that are
for screening out inappropriate donor financing. often linked to medical education and research.
Two new hospital construction proposals that Another cause of duplication is the public provi-
were found to conflict with the plan are being sion of health services to different subgroups of
reconsidered. the population, each with its own hospitals and
In the private sector, financial incentives drive health centers. In Poland, for example, parallel
investment decisions. Health maintenance organi- health systems exist for workers and their families

136


--- Page 151 ---
in the railway, mining, police, and military sectors PRODUCTIVITY. The potential for improving the
and for prisoners; another set of facilities serves productivity of installed hospital capacity is large.
the general population. This can result in excess In addition to the financing and management re-
capacity, with no facilities achieving economies of forms discussed in Chapter 5, efficiency gains can
scale. be achieved by taking the following measures,
There are two solutions for duplication: creating which will need to be supported by investments in
internal markets and instituting central or regional training and infrastructure:
planning linked to health budgets. If effective in- Convert some acute care hospital capacity to
ternal markets are created within the public sector, less costly extended or chronic care facilities for
money will follow patientsand patients, together patients who require less-intensive care for long-
with their general practitioners, will have a choice term recovery and for rehabilitation of chronic
as to which hospital to use. The availability of conditions. Extended care facilities operate at a
good information about quality and price will help lower cost per bed-day than acute care hospitals.
efficient providers of specialist services to prosper, In the absence of such lower-level facilities, pa-
while less-efficient hospitals will close. The alter- tients occupy high-cost acute care beds.
native is rationalization of services by central or Perform outpatient diagnostic tests before ad-
regional planning. In the largely publicly financed mitting the patient to the hospital.
health systems of the Nordic countries, health re- Support home care as an alternative to long-
sources are allocated by region. Each region of term hospitalization for some ailments.
about 350,000 inhabitants elects representatives Modify treatment protocolsfor example, re-
who make decisions about health care spending. duce unnecessary surgeries, perform low-risk de-
These representatives have incentives to avoid du- liveries at maternity centers, and treat tuberculosis
plication of services and to capture economies of patients and many surgical cases on an outpatient
scale in service delivery. If left to individual hospi- basis. In Cali, Colombia, costs per procedure for
tals, decisionmaking for large investments will day surgery are less than 30 percent of the cost
tend to reflect the interests of that hospital, not the of traditional treatment in hospital. Outpatient
region. Multiple hospitals will want to provide surgery has grown rapidly in many industrial
specialized, "prestige" services, leading to countries but is used much less in developing
overinvestment. countries.

EQuITY CONSIDERATIONS. For the rural poor, lack MAKING THE TRANSITION. The 1985 earthquake
of physical infrastructure is the largest obstacle to in Mexico City destroyed about 20 percent of pub-
use of health services. Distance to health facilities lic hospital capacity. The Ministry of Health chose
limits people's willingness and ability to seek care, to concentrate reconstruction and new construc-
particularly when transport is limited. There is a tion in low-income periurban areas that had hith-
heavy urban bias in the distribution of health facili- erto been poorly served, and six new 144-bed dis-
ties. Large cities are much better served by both trict hospitals were built in these areas. But such
public and private health infrastructure than possibilities for rapidly reconfiguring capacity to-
would be expected from their roles of serving ur- ward lower-level facilities and underserved areas
ban populations and providing referral services for are seldom available. The alternative is to reduce
the surrounding population. (Referral hospitals or refrain from public investment in tertiary hospi-
are needed for only a small proportionno more tals while simultaneously increasing investment
than 10 percentof total hospitalizations.) Wealth- and operating budgets for health centers and dis-
ier regions also have better access to infrastruc- trict hospitals. Over time, the tertiary hospitals can
ture. In India the richer states of Maharashtra and be operated on a self-financing basis, or they can
Gujarat have 1.5 and 1.1 beds, respectively, per be closed, converted to chronic care facilities or
1,000 population; the poorer states of Bihar and district hospitals if these are needed, or even sold
Madhya Pradesh have only 0.3 and 0.4 bed, re- to the private sector. But in most countries this
spectively, per 1,000 population. Public invest- process will necessarily be slow.
ments need to address inequities in the present
distribution of health infrastructure. Donors have Equipment
an important role in this regard, especially where a
significant proportion of investment is donor Developing countries account for about $5 billion,
financed. or 7 percent, of the $71 billion spent each year on

137


--- Page 152 ---
medical equipment worldwide. This global esti- proving maintenance to increase operating life and
mate includes medical and dental supplies, surgi- reduce downtime of equipment is more efficient
cal instruments, electromedical and X-ray equip- than buying new equipment.
ment, diagnostic tools, and implanted products. Because of the many products on the market
The ability of the medical equipment industry to and the speed of change, carrying out technology
develop new health care technologies has vastly assessments can be extremely costly. The interna-
exceeded the capacity of purchasers to evaluate tional community could help by developing and
the clinical value and the cost-effectiveness of such disseminating information on the availability, ef-
innovations. At present, approximately 6,000 dis- fectiveness, and prices of equipment and on user
tinct types of medical devices (equipment, sup- guidelines. Essential equipment lists could be de-
plies, and reagents) and more than 750,000 veloped along the lines of the essential drug lists
brands, models, and sizes, produced by perhaps12,000 manufacturers worldwide, are on thealready used by many countries.
market. Equipment procurement would also benefit
from greater use of competitive buying. Purchas-
Efficiency losses from poor selection and main- ing is commonly restricted to local distributor-
tenance of medical equipment can be very large. ships, and some countries also heavily protect lo-
WHO estimates that less than half of all medical cal industry. These policies reduce competition
equipment in developing countries is usable. In and can easily double the purchase price of equip-
Brazil an estimated 20 to 40 percent of the $2 billion ment. Developing countries can cut costs by
to $3 billion worth of public sector medical equip- adopting competitive purchasing methods or by
ment is not working. A study of twelve Kenyan purchasing equipment from international agen-
hospitals in 1984 found that sterilizers operated for ciessuch as UNICEF, Equipment for Charity
an average of two years instead of the six expected Hospitals Overseas (ECHO), and the International
and that incubators lasted only two years rather Dispensary Associationthat offer procurement
than eight. Equipment failed prematurely because services for some medical equipment at competi-
maintenance budgets were only about 1 percent of tive prices.
the value of the capital stock (10 percent might be There are several reasons for government in-
considered optimal). In Viet Nam 39 percent of volvement in the development of health infra-
urban health centers and 29 percent of urban poly- structure. The government itself, as a provider of
clinics surveyed in 1991 lacked a working ster- health services, may finance and use infrastruc-
ilizera critical piece of equipment for developing ture. It may also intervene to compensate for mar-
countries that have to reuse such supplies as ket failures that can lead to greater investment,
syringes. particularly in specialized health inputs, than is
Investments in medical equipment can be ratio- socially optimal. Finally, the government has a role
nalized by controlling the purchase of expensive, in undertaking technology assessment of medical
sophisticated equipment and rejecting most do- equipment, which is a costly public good.
nated medical equipment, new or used. To contain To reduce both capital and recurrent costs with-
costs, Belgium, France, and Portugal directly con- out sacrificing quality of care, governments can:
trol the acquisition of state-of-the-art medical tech- Reallocate public spending toward the facili-
nologies by both the public and the private sectors. ties and equipment required for providing public
In Canada major capital acquisitions require prior health programs and essential clinical services.
approval by the provincial or territorial ministry of Improve the efficiency of installed capacity by
health on the basis of a needs assessment and considering alternative uses of facilities, as well as
other factors. Alternatively, governments can en- new diagnostic and treatment protocols. (Exam-
courage public hospitals to make tough choices by ples are the conversion of some costly acute care
limiting their budgets. Even assuming that do- capacity to less costly extended care beds and
nated equipment meets local equipment require-. treatment of some surgeries on an outpatient
ments, very little of it ever becomes operational, basis.) Such reconfiguration may require modest
for a variety of reasons, including missing or dam- new investment.
aged parts, lack of disposable inputs and of user When cost containment is a concern, consider
and service manuals, and problems with power controls on the purchase of expensive, specialized
supply. Standardization of equipment could sim- technologies, whether by public or by private
plify management and maintenance and reduce providers.
inventory costs. Purchasing decisions could be an- Support and disseminate technology assess-
alyzed on a life-cycle cost basis. In many cases im- ments to purchasers.
138


--- Page 153 ---
Reduce or eliminate subsidies to private in- too, has long relied on graduates of three-year (in-
vestors in facilities and equipment. stead of five-year) medical schools to meet the
needs of rural areas.
Addressing imbalances in human In some countries tasks traditionally performed
resources by physicians have been successfully delegated to
lower-level primary care providers as a way of im-
Nearly all countries face the same fundamental proving the efficiency of health services. By spe-
problems with human resources in the health sec- cializing in certain common procedures (as mid-
tor. There are not enough primary care providers wives specialize in deliveries, for example), such
and too many specialists. Health workers are con- providers may become better at their tasks than a
centrated in urban areas. Training in public health, generalist physician. Surgical technicians in
health policy, and health management has been Mozambique perform hysterectomies and ce-
relatively neglected. Medical training is subsidized sarean sections and remove ectopic pregnancies.
even though physicians may earn high incomes Some nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in
and many work in the private sector. Bangladesh use graduate nurses to do steriliza-
There are several ways in which governments tions, and in Thailand public sector nurse-mid-
can do something about these problems. Public wives perform this procedure. In these cases, eval-
sector pay and employment policies can be im- uations indicate no differences in outcomes
proved to be more competitive with the private compared with procedures done by physicians.
sector and to relate pay to performance. Career Ophthalmic clinical officers, who are not physi-
development paths and in-service training are cians, have performed cataract surgery in Kenya
needed to retain staff, especially in managerial po- on a pilot basis, and evaluations indicate accept-
sitions. Policies on accreditation and licensing can able results. Africa has only one ophthalmologist
be used to limit enrollments in training programs, per 1 million people; without the use of nonphysi-
to shape curricula (all physicians might spend time cian services, many patients would not be able to
in rural practice during their medical training or be get cataract surgery.
required to pass examinations in public health), The distribution of nurses and physicians by re-
and to set minimum standards for providers. Edu- gion is shown in Figure 6.3. Appropriate staffing
cation finance policies can be used to curtail educa- ratios depend heavily on the organization and f i-
tion opportunities for physicians and specialists nancing of care and the specific tasks health per-
and to expand them for workers in primary care, sonnel carry out. Health maintenance organiza-
public health, health policy, and management. But tions in the United States, for example, operate
where oversupply is greatest, as for specialist phy- with about 1.2 physicians per 1,000 enrollees, com-
sicians, the only effective solution may be to set pared with about 4.5 in the fee-for-service sector.
quotas for training, or at the very least for publicly Evaluations of health outcomes and user satisfac-
subsidized training. tion indicate that these savings in resources do not
come at the expense of quality. Sub-Saharan Africa
Improving the balance between primary care providers has the fewest physicians and nurses of any re-
and specialists gion, which is an obstacle to the delivery of the
A central role in delivery of most cost-effective public health interventions and essential clinical
services described in Chapters 4 and 5 because
health interventions belongs to primary care pro- some of the existing personnel are providing other
viders, a category that can include physicians, services. The public health and minimum essential
nurses, nurse practitioners, or midwives, depend- clinical interventions require about 0.1 physician
ing upon how the jobs are defined. Nonphysician per 1,000 population and between 2 and 4 gradu-
primary care providers have many advantages. ate nurses per physician. Given resource con-
They cost less to train (data from Myanmar, straints, however, the relatively high ratio of
Pakistan, and Sri Lanka indicate that between 2.5 nurses to physicians in Sub-Saharan Africa is a
and 3 nurses can be trained for the cost of training good sign. There is no optimal level of physicians
one physician), and they receive lower salaries. per capita or optimal nurse-to-physician ratio, but
They are easier to attract to rural areas and usually a rule of thumb is that nurses should exceed physi-
communicate more effectively with their patients. cians by at least two to one. (The ratio is five to one
In Sub-Saharan Africa, where the few local physi- in Africa but well under two to one in China,
cians are concentrated in urban hospitals, nurses India, Latin America, and the Middle Eastern
often function as primary care providers. China, crescent.)

139


--- Page 154 ---
The availability and mix of health personnel vary widely across regions.

Figure 6.3 Supply of health personnel by demographic region, 1990 or most recent available year

Physicians per 1,000 population Ratio of nurses and midwivesto physicians

5 6
I
D Sub-Saharan Africa O Middle Eastern crescent 0 Established market economies
fl Other Asia and islands O Latin America and the Caribbean Formerly socialist economies
D India o China

Source: See Appendix table A.8.

PHYSICIAN OVERSUPPLY. During the 1960s and nonmedical jobs, and 11 percent were in low-
1970s many governments encouraged, primarily income medical jobs or were seeing very few pa-
through subsidies to education, rapid expansion in tientswhich is a concern because the physicians
physician training to meet the need for primary may not see enough patients to maintain their
care providers. In many countries the excess of competence. The quality of medical education also
physicians in relation to nurses and of specialists declined with the rapid growth in medical schools.
in relation to other physicians has created prob- Furthermore, the expansion of medical training
lems. By the early 1980s the established market did nothing to solve the problem of attracting phy-
economies, Latin America, and parts of Asia were sicians to rural areas. In 1983 an interinstitutional
having trouble absorbing growing numbers of body was created, with representatives from the
physicians. These policies have been costly, and it ministries of health and education, health care in-
will take many years to correct the imbalances. stitutions, and universities. This group has, by
Mexico illustrates the problems. Medical enroll- agreement, reduced enrollments and contained
ments in 1970 stood at about 29,000 in twenty- the number of medical schools. More recently, the
seven schools. Within ten years there were 93,000 government has begun publishing average exam-
in fifty-six schools. Many of the schools offered ination scores of medical school graduates by
highly subsidized or free tuition, and some of the school to provide information on educational qual-
largest had open enrollment policies. At the same ity for prospective students and employers.
time, health services were growing only modestly. Other countries responded to physician over-
In 1960 there were 20,600 physicians in Mexico; by supply by restricting medical immigration (Canada
1990 there were 166,000. A survey of physicians in and the United Kingdom), by reducing working
major cities in 1986 revealed that 7 percent were hours (Denmark), and by indirectly promoting
unemployed, another 11 percent were working in outmigration of medical personnel. The last two
140


--- Page 155 ---
Box 6.1 International migration and the global market for health professionals

Over the past several decades, large numbers of physi- trained human resources can cause shortages of health
cians and nurses have migrated across national bor- workers. In Jamaica vacancy rates of more than 50 per-
ders. WHO estimates that 14,000 nurses did so in the cent in nursing positions, in large part because of mas-
early 1970s and that in 1972 more than 140,000 physi- sive migration of nurses, have forced the Ministry of
cians (or 6 percent of the total) resided outside the Health to close whole wards and to reduce the services
countries in which they were born or had been trained. offered in many facilities. In addition, emigrating
Over the past half century the main flow of physicians health workers deprive their own countries of the
and nurses has been from developing to industrial benefits of (often state-financed) investments in their
countries. Developing countries donate a full 56 per- education. For example, the 111 registered nurses who
cent of all migrating physicians and receive less than 11 resigned from government service in Jamaica in 1990
percent. The principal donating countries for physi- took with them nearly $1.7 million in government in-
cians are India and the Philippines. More than 90 per- vestment in training and education.
cent of the nurses who migrate go to North America,
Europe, and the high-income countries of the western Policy responses
Pacific, while only about 7 percent go to developing
countries. Migrating nurses come overwhelmingly In an attempt to alter the patterns of migration, many
from the Philippines, which exports each year 2,000 to countries have changed their immigration and licens-
3,000 nurses, many of whom go to North America. In ing laws and regulations. During the 1980s, for exam-
1970 more Filipino nurses were registered in Canada ple, the United States, to address its own nursing
and the United States than in the Philippines, and the shortage, changed its policy on immigration of nurses,
trend has continued to the present. Other major coun- making it relatively easy for nurses wishing to come to
tries of origin for migrating nurses are Australia, Can- the United States to obtain a visa. This had a profound
ada, the United Kingdom, and certain West Indian effect on a number of neighboring countries. In the
countries. Philippines during the same period it became increas-
ingly difficult for registered nurses to obtain travel doc-
Consequences uments because of the enormous outflow of nurses
from that country.
The migration of health professionals has both positive Short-term immigration restrictions, however, may
and negative effects. It can help alleviate shortages in have only a limited effect. Other possibilities for en-
the receiving countries, and large remittances or tax couraging health professionals to remain in their home
revenues from overseas workers can improve the stan- countries include reforming education finance to re-
dard of living in the countries of origin. (The Philip- quire that individuals repay some or all of the costs of
pines received an estimated $680 million from expatri- state-financed training, through student loans or en-
ate workers in all fields in 1986, and an estimated $8 forced service bond requirements. And publicly fi-
billion in remittances went to developing countries as a nanced opportunities for overseas training could be re-
group in 1975.) On the negative side, the net outflow of stricted because of its tendency to lead to outmigration.
L

solutions waste valuable resources (see Box 6.1). In cedures. This, in turn, pushes up health care costs
some countries the government can limit enroll- and reduces the quality of care. The United States
ments in medical schools directly. Egypt has re- has the highest number of cardiologists and car-
duced medical enrollments by half since 1982; in diac operating suites per capita in the world and
France the Ministry of Health used quotas to cut correspondingly higher rates of surgerya signifi-
new enrollments from about 11,000 in 1975 to less cant proportion of which is inappropriate.
than 5,000 in 1989. In other countries, such as Ger- While practice guidelines and incentive struc-
many and Mexico, universities have autonomy in tures can be important policy tools for curbing
determining enrollments, and cuts must be made overuse of procedures, training fewer cardiologists
through consensus or through education finance would also help. A classic U.S. study showed that
policies. a 10 percent increase in surgeons would bring
about a 3 to 4 percent increase in surgical opera-
CURTAILING SPECIALIST TRAINING. Most govern- tionsthe phenomenon of "supplier-induced
ments will need to limit not only total enrollments demand."
but also the training of medical specialists. High Even when specialists function as generalists,
numbers of specialists tend to increase the fre- they have more costly styles of practice, ordering
quency of unnecessary and often risky pro- more tests and procedures. Analysis of geographic

141


--- Page 156 ---
variation in expenditures in the United States indi- slow. The fifty-five member institutions of the in-
cates that expenditures on physician services are ternational Network of Community-Oriented Edu-
unrelated to the total number of physicians per cational Institutions for Health Sciences have
capita but are related to the ratio of primary care adopted curriculum reforms that emphasize com-
physicians to specialists. Many OECD countries munity-based and problem-based learning. The
limit the number of specialist training oppor- goal is to produce graduates whose competencies
tunities. This policy instrument is increasingly and experience correspond closely to community
relevant for middle-income countries interested in health needs. Significantly larger proportions of
cost containment. Subsidized medical education graduates from these schools have followed ca-
has already led to overproduction in some middle- reers in primary care, Similar reform efforts have
income developing countries such as Chile, where taken place in nursing education. In Nigeria, Sene-
75 percent of all physicians are specialists, and gal, and Uganda (for basic nurse training) and in
Venezuela, where about 55 percent of all physi- Thailand (for public health nurse practitioners) the
cians employed in the public sector are specialists nursing curriculum has been oriented more to-
In contrast, only 25 to 50 percent of physicians in ward community settings and preventive services.
Belgium, France, Germany, and the Scandinavian
countries are specialists, and regulatory bodies Attracting primary care providers to underserved areas
and committees determine the number to be
trained. Health providers are concentrated in urban areas.
Few, if any, specialists are needed to deliver the Professional isolation, lack of additional work op-
cost-effective clinical interventions discussed in portunities, substandard housing, and other dis-
Chapter 5, even with a modest expansion in con- amenities often make staffing rural health facilities
tent beyond the minimum essential package. difficult. If public sector wages cannot be in-
Some specialists are required for services outside creased, other methods must be found to increase
the essential package. The overall proportion of the attractiveness of rural posts. Many countries
physician generalists to specialists is an important require a period of rural service following publicly
indicator for governments to monitor, but this in- financed medical training. Canadian provinces
formation is not at present readily available in have used many incentives, including differential
many countries. A reasonable benchmark for the pay scales, settlement allowances, payment of ex-
maximum proportion of specialists to physicians penses for continuing education, and provision of
in developing countries might be 25 percent, scholarships for later study in return for a certain
which is about the lowest proportion found in the number of years of service.
established market economies. In many develop- In some settings lack of female health providers
ing countries the proportion could be much lower, is an obstacle to utilization of health services. In
given the epidemiological characteristics of the Egypt, for example, most physicians are male, but
population and the smaller share of the population cultural beliefs constrain women from being seen
using clinical services beyond the essential pack- after puberty by men who are not family mem-
age. Public regulation and rationing of specialist bers. Even when trained, female primary care pro-
training, in addition to the elimination of training viders are hard to attract to underserved areas be-
subsidies, may be needed to achieve this. cause of security concerns and the importance of
living with their families. The Aga Khan Develop-
CONTENT OF TRAINING. Primary care training ment Network in Pakistan, recognizing this prob-
should include, at a minimum, the skills necessary lem, has trained women to work in their own com-
to provide the essential clinical services discussed munities as lady health visitors.
in Chapter 5. In fact, however, basic curricula in Community health workers can complement the
medical schools often fail adequately to cover work of primary care providers in rural areas.
some of these services, such as family planning Burkina Faso, the Gambia, Ghana, and other
services and the proper diagnosis and treatment of countries have trained large numbers of commu-
sexually transmitted diseases (STDs). For more nity health workers as part of the national strategy
than two decades there have been calls to stop for primary health care; in many other settings
training health professionals in high-technology much smaller programs have been set up by NGO
tertiary institutions and to expose them thor- groups. Evaluations sometimes show disappoint-
oughly to health problems and practice at the ing results: community health workers have often
grass-roots level. But progress has been extremely had little impact on health service utilization and

142


--- Page 157 ---
Box 6.2 Community health workers

Over the past twenty years many countries have exper- to the health system, but their availability to the com-
imented with the use of community health workers munity diminished. The program has since been
(CHWs) to provide primary health care. Several Afri- greatly reduced.
can countries introduced CHW programs in the 1970s Other efforts have been more successful. Perhaps
as a way of extending primary health care services at the largest scale NGO-run community health worker
low cost nationwide. Health workers' responsibilities program is the Pastoral da Crianca, operated by the
typically include providing education on sanitation, Catholic Church in Brazil. This program, initiated in
nutrition, family planning, child health, and immuni- 1983, receives strong support from the Ministry of
zations, in addition to carrying out some basic health Health and some technical and financial support from
interventions. They can also be valuable as a referral UNICEF and from the Bernard Van Leer Foundation
point between health centers and the community. Re- and other NGOs. It now has 47,000 CHWs throughout
grettably, CHW programs have had mixed results. Brazil. An estimated 1.5 million children were enrolled
Studies have shown that in the Gambia and Indonesia in the program in 1992. CHWs provide health educa-
traditional birth attendants who were not backed up by tion to low-income mothers regarding the importance
skilled services were unable to decrease the risk of ma- of prenatal care, good diet during pregnancy, breast-
ternal mortality. feeding, proper weaning, immunizations, and man-
A Jamaican program, launched in 1977, that used agement of diarrhea, and they monitor the growth of
CHWs in primary health care efforts is an example of a infants and young children. The training process for
well-intentioned effort gone awry. Problems emerged CHWs follows a central guideline but is adapted to fit
from the beginning, with the selection of personnel. the characteristics of different regions. Special care is
CHWs generally demonstrate greater dedication when given to the training programs for illiterate volunteers,
they serve the communities in which they live. Unfor- and supervision of CHWs is closely integrated with
tunately, too few CHWs were recruited from the target continuing education and motivational support. An
communities, and workers who lived elsewhere had to evaluation carried out in 1990 found that health and
be enlisted. Inability to recruit male volunteers limited nutritional indicators for young children enrolled in the
the success of family planning and STD-prevention program were significantly better than indicators from
programs. The CHWsa large groupsought and ob- similar communities in which the Pastoral da Crianca
tained civil service benefits, including a set salary struc- had no activities.
ture and promotional opportunities. In 1985 salaries for Community health workers are also central to the
briefly trained CHWs were to be equivalent to two- successful Aga Khan Health Service primary health
thirds those of registered nurses with three years' care programs in remote mountainous areas of rural
training. Health center buildings were altered to serve Pakistan. The CHWsvolunteers selected by the vil-
as bases for CHW operations. Shortages of higher-level lagerscollect epidemiological information, provide
staff prompted many health centers to substitute health education, identify problems, and provide sim-
CHWs for nurses, even though the workers lacked the ple treatment and referrals. They are backed up by mo-
necessary training. CHWs became increasingly linked bile teams of physicians and nurses.

health indicators (Box 6.2). These same evalua- These skills are in short supply in most developing
tions point to four necessary (but difficult) condi- countries. Public health often receives little atten-
tions for success: community health workers must tion in basic medical curricula, specialty training is
be well trained, well supervised, well provided often inadequate, and courses in public health
with logistical support, and linked to well-func- schools may be too academic and not relevant to
tioning district health systems for referral when local problems and needs. In Sub-Saharan Africa,
needed. where public health capacity is weakest, fewer
than 100 people receive specialty training in public
Increasing training in public health, management, health annually. Some countries are exploring and
policy, and planning implementing multidisciplinary training programs
that include management and communication
Improvements in health systems performance can techniques as well as the traditional public health
be facilitated by training adequate numbers of poli- sciences. An innovative example of public health
cymaking and management personnel, including training designed to produce future leaders is the
public health specialists, policy analysts, hospital Union School of Public Health in Beijing, estab-
managers, and drug management specialists. lished in 1989 to stimulate public health training in

143


--- Page 158 ---
the entire country. The school offers a master's in a priority sector (such as primary care or public
degree in public health and draws students and health) or in an underserved location. Not only
teachers both from health disciplines and from would professionals be better distributed and
economics, management, and the social and envi- used, but there would be substantial savings of
ronmental sciences. Training is based on problem public resources.
solving, and more than half of the educational ex- Almost every country today is grappling with
perience is in the form of community service. In problems in the mix and quality of its health pro-
Zimbabwe, under a new public health training fessionals. Government financial policies can play
program, students spend 75 percent of their time a constructive and central role in correcting market
in the field. failures that lead to distortions in access to training
Health policy and planning and good manage- and in the supply of professionals in different
ment are fundamental (albeit insufficient) condi- fields. (For example, if credit is not widely access-
tions for better performance of health services. ible, only the better-off may be able to go to medi-
Over the past thirty years the role of managers, cal school; if the private rate of return for a certain
economists, and planners in health services has specialty greatly exceeds the social rate of return,
expanded in the industrial countries. For example, more professionals may choose that field than
in many of these countries professional (nonphysi- would be socially optimal.) Government policy
cian) hospital managers commonly run hospitals, can:
in contrast to developing countries, where hospi- Help meet the need for training primary care
tals tend to be run by physicians. As developing providers and other health professionals by im-
countries seek to boost efficiency and as they move proving capital marketsusing student loan pro-
toward decentralized management of health facili- grams, where feasibleand through national ser-
ties, the need for trained managers increases. In vice mechanisms.
most developing countries, however, training pro- Increase spending on training of, and im-
grams in these areas are poorly developed. prove public sector wages and benefits for, health
Distance education can facilitate training in pub- professionals in areas in which social benefits cur-
lic health, health economics, and management by rently exceed private returns. These include, in
allowing rapid implantation of what are often new particular, nonphysician primary care providers,
curricula without the time-consuming task of health care managers, and staff in rural areas.
training a new generation of teachers. Distance Limit or eliminate subsidies and financial in-
learning has been used, for example, to build centives for specialist training.
health research capacity in China. The University
of Newcastle in Australia, in collaboration with Improving the selection, acquisition, and use
Chinese universities, has set up a postgraduate of drugs
distance-learning program in clinical epidemiol-
ogy. The printed materials and academic stan- Drugs and vaccines embody much of the power of
dards of the distance-learning program are equiva- modern medicine. Governments can enhance
lent to those in the Australian program. Chinese their own utilization of drugs and assist the private
professors help the students with applied labora- sector in increasing its efficiency through policies
tory and research work. that improve selection, rationalize acquisition and
production, and encourage better use. Through
Reforming the finance of health training drug regulation and the development of a national
list of essential drugs of established cost-effective-
Many of the problems with human resources in ness, governments can help providers and con-
the health sector derive from the fundamental flaw sumers make better choices among the approxi-
of public subsidization of medical training. If phy- mately 100,000 different drugscomposed of more
sicians paid the full costs of their training, it would than 5,000 different active substancesnow avail-
be of no concern if they were later employed in able worldwide. Governments can encourage
nonmedical work. Public subsidies could be specif- health systems to buy drugs of assured quality
ically targeted to encourage those training and ca- from the lowest-cost supplier, whether domestic
reer choices that are in the public interest. or international. They can eliminate the incentives
Student loans could replace most of the current that in many countries induce physicians to over-
public subsidies for training. Repayment of loans prescribe drugs because of the profits they earn
might then be forgone if the trainee agreed to work from directly dispensing them. In China, Japan,

144


--- Page 159 ---
and Korea such incentives helped to drive drug therapeutic products. Evidence from the United
spending up to 35 to 50 percent of total health Kingdom and other countries shows that the
spending. adoption of formularies can contribute to consider-
able savings in drug costs if physicians are in-
Selecting essential drugs volved in their development and are educated
about the results.
The Model List of Essential Drugs developed by Governments are also responsible for carrying
WHO suggests a basic list of drugs that WHO con- out regulatory functions to ensure that all drugs
siders important and effective for dealing with on the market are of acceptable quality, safety, and
health problems in developing countries. First efficacy. Building up a national regulatory author-
drawn up in 1977 by art expert panel, the original ity requires the creation of a core group of trained
list has been revised and updated seven times and staff, enactment of supporting legislation for ad-
now includes about 270 products. It is designed to ministrative drug review, and the establishment of
serve as a template from which countries can de- quality assurance laboratories. These are impor-
velop their own still more specific lists of essential tant areas for donor assistance and perhaps for
drugs. internationally shared efforts.
Drugs on the national essential list are intended
to be available at all times and in the appropriate Acquiring and producing drugs
dosage forms in publicly provided health services.
At the health center level about thirty to forty In 1990 the public and private sectors in develop-
drugs can treat almost all complaints. District hos- ing countries spent an estimated $44 billion, or $10
pitals require no more than 120 drugs. If properly per capita, on pharmaceuticals. Global expendi-
purchased, these drugs tend to be relatively inex- tures on pharmaceuticals amounted to about $220
pensive; almost all have multiple suppliers on in- billion, or $40 per capita. Total expenditures on
ternational markets. Drugs are listed by interna- human vaccines, excluding those made in devel-
tional, nonproprietary (generic) names. Although oping countries, were between $1.6 billion and
many countries have created these essential drug $2.0 billion in 1992. Drug expenditures vary
lists, only a few have used them to guide purchas- widely, from a low of $2 per capita in parts of Sub-
ing and management of public sector (or publicly Saharan Africa and in Bangladesh to a high of $412
financed) drug supplies. And occasionally national in Japan (Table 6.1).
drug lists have omitted important products, par-
ticularly contraceptives. Table 6.1 Annual drug expenditures per
Bangladesh and Sudan use limited lists not only capita, selected countries, 1990
to select drugs for public financing but also to Expenditure
guide the national drug registration process, Country (dollars)
thereby affecting the mix of drugs available in the Japan 412
private sector as well. Norway has limited the Germany 222
number of drugs registered by incorporating cost- United States 191
effectiveness, among other factors, into the review Canada 124
process. Since 1991 Zimbabwe has used its na- United Kingdom 97
tional list to determine which drugs can be im- Norway 89
ported by the private sector without a permit. Costa Rica 37
Chile 30
The applicability of the essential drug concept is Mexico 28
not limited to developing countries; drug formul- Turkey 21
aries, which are detailed lists of essential drugs, Morocco 17
are widely used by institutional health providers Brazil 16
(public or private) and insurance companies in in- Philippines 11
Ghana 10
dustrial countries. The formulary contains the China 7
names of drugs that are approved or recom- Pakistan 7
mended for health providers and supply systems. Indonesia 5
It also provides useful information for individual Kenya 4
prescribers. In creating formularies, drugs are as- India 3
Bangladesh 2
sessed on the basis of their safety, effectiveness, Mozambique 2
and cost-effectiveness in comparison with other Source; Ballance, Pogany, and Forstner 1992.

145


--- Page 160 ---
In most established market economies phar- cedures, and selection of generic drugs on the
maceuticals and vaccines account for between 5 basis of its national essential drug list. This, of
and 20 percent of health care spending, and, ex- course, is facilitated by Costa Rica's political stabil-
cept in Canada and the United States, more than ity. In 1986 several Caribbean islands joined to-
half of all drug expenditures are publicly financed. gether to carry out international tenders through
In developing countries, households' out-of- the Caribbean Development Bank. In the firstyear
portion of total drug spending. In Côte d'Ivoirepocket expenditures make up a much larger pro-they saved 44 percent over previous prices.
and Pakistan, more than 90 percent of household The first step toward efficient procurement is
health expenditure is devoted to drugs. In the careful quantification of drug and vaccine supply
public sector drugs generally account for between needs over a given period, using essential drug
10 and 30 percent of total recurrent costs, making lists or formularies where possible. Large stocks of
them the second largest category after salaries. low-priority drugs have high opportunity costs:
Given this high volume of expenditure, achieving they tie up resources and may expire before they
the substantial improvements in efficiency of can be used. Shortages of high-priority drugs are
procurement that are possible becomes a high also costly; emergency purchases from local sup-
priority. pliers are always expensive. Good forecasting per-
mits economical purchasing.
Some governments and many donors purchase
PURCHASING DRUGS AND VACCINES EFFICIENTLY. drugs through international agencies (see Box 6.3).
Some countries have achieved savings of 40 to 60 These agencies use international tendering and,
percent in pharmaceutical expenditure by improv- because of the scale of their purchases and their
ing selection and by competitive purchasing. For low operating margins, pass on very low prices.
example, for several years the Costa Rican social (The total amount of drugs procured in this way is,
security agency has been able to purchase drugs at however, small in relation to total drug expendi-
approximately half the price of its counterpart in- tures in developing countries.) UNICEF purchased
stitutions in other Central American countries, about $160 million worth of pharmaceuticals, vac-
partly because of its use of centralized purchasing, cines, and related supplies for developing coun-
more open and transparent purchasing pro- tries in 1992. Ethiopia, Sudan, Tanzania, and

Box 6.3 Buying right: how international agencies saveon purchases of pharmaceuticals

UNICEF and several nonprofit organizations offer pur- plies on behalf of governments and nonprofit organiza-
chasing services that enable countries to obtain favor- tions in more than eighty developing countries. Its cur-
able prices for drugs, vaccines, and some medical rent annual turnover amounts to $80 million. IDA also
equipment. UNICEF, the biggest in the field, has sup- carries out quality assurance, checking that manufac-
plied basic drugs and vaccines since the 1960s. In 1983 turers produce in accordance with internationally ac-
it issued its first international invitation to tender for cepted standards. When the drugs are received, IDA
the bulk purchase of pharmaceuticals for Tanzania. The tests samples for quality and verifies labels and certifi-
prices quoted against the invitation to tender were up cates of analysis.
to 50 percent lower than previous price quotations. As Price lists from UNICEF and IDA provide valuable
a result of this experience, UNICEF has continued to market information for countries' own procurement.
use international tendering for the bulk purchase of Competitive tendering in Mali reduced prices by 40
pharmaceuticals and to pass on these favorable prices percent. In Kenya bulk purchasing of carefully selected
to developing countries. UNICEF contracts with the essential drugs was estimated in 1985 to save nearly 40
Danish National Board of Health to provide advice on percent (or $700,000) of the annual drug bill for church
quality assurance for pharmaceutical products. In 1992 health institutions. In 1992 the Chinese government
UNICEF's purchases of drugs ($61.2 million), vaccines carried out international competitive bidding for drugs
($63.6 million), and refrigeration equipment, syringes, for tuberculosis treatment and_perhaps because of the
needles, and sterilizers ($33.4 million) were delivered very large scale of procurement involved, the low-cost
to more than 120 countries. packaging requirements, and the desire of manufac-
The International Dispensary Association (IDA), es- turers to enter the Chinese marketachieved savings
tablished in 1972, is a nonprofit supplier of drugs to of about 70 percent of UNICEF's published prices.
developing countries. IDA procures drugs and sup-

146


--- Page 161 ---
Zambia have all relied heavily on nonprofit inter- Brazil, Indonesia, and Turkeyhave primary man-
national drug suppliers. ufacturing capabilities or the ability to produce
But many other developing countries fail to take both therapeutic ingredients and finished prod-
advantage of international competition or interna- ucts. But most developing countries either have
tional agencies. Purchasing methods, as well as only the capacity to produce finished products
import restrictions, tend to restrict competition from imported ingredients or have no manufactur-
and thereby raise prices. In addition, price compe- ing capability whatsoever. (Countries in the latter
tition is restricted by the industry's extensive drug group are typically very small.)
promotion practices and, in the case of patented Except in the largest countries that have primary
products, by monopoly power. Some countries, manufacturing capabilities, local pharmaceutical
such as Venezuela and Zimbabwe, protect local production in developing countries is likely to
pharmaceutical industries from international com- make sense only for intravenous fluids, which
petition (imported drugs will not be approved for have relatively high transport costs; for local pack-
import and sale if there is a local producer), and aging of bulk imports in finishing plants; and for
Belize and other countries impose import tariffs packaging of oral rehydration salts. Even in these
even if there is no local production. This results in activities local production may be inefficient and
great variation in prices for pharmaceuticals and waste scarce resources. State-run drug and vaccine
supplies in developing countries. Cross-country companies, from which the public sector pur-
data on the retail price of condoms show remark- chases preferentially, are common in many coun-
able variation: condoms cost only $2 to $3 per 100 tries, including Bangladesh, Brazil, India, and
in China, Egypt, and Tunisia, $15 to $30 per 100 in Laos. In some countries the local pharmaceutical
Costa Rica, Ecuador, and Mexico, and more than industry (public or private) produces drugs that
$70 per 100 in Brazil, Burundi, Myanmar, and Ven- could be purchased less expensively elsewhere.
ezuela. This price variation is attributable to a com- Such industries survive only because of the protec-
bination of factors, including import tariffs, import tion accorded through the prohibition of compet-
restrictions, and wholesale and retail marketing ing imports, through import tariffs, or through
structures. guaranteed agreements for public purchase re-
Some countries purchase directly from a few lo- gardless of price.
cal suppliers because of liquidity constraints. Inter- The combination of protection and poor regula-
national agencies do not extend credit, and they tion can be particularly damaging. A 1990 study of
require payment in hard currency. Local suppliers more than 6,000 infants in Bangladesh revealed
often extend credit in exchange for significantly that the mothers' tetanus toxoid vaccinations did
higher prices. Changing this practice to take ad- not reduce the risk of tetanus. Subsequent testing
vantage of benefits from competitive procurement in reference laboratories of Bangladesh-produced
would require the ministries of both health and vaccine indicated no potency in several consecu-
finance to make budgetary funds and foreign ex- tive batches, raising questions about the efficacy of
change available when needed for large-scale drug the more than 40 million doses already adminis-
purchases. Governments can also improve drug tered. Since Bangladesh has no independent na-
procurement by passing legislation to facilitate ge- tional control authority for certifying vaccine
neric drug prescribing. This can increase the af- safety, all testing had been done by the production
fordability of drugs purchased from private facility itself. Evidence suggests that few public
outlets. sector pharmaceutical and vaccine producers have
been able to operate competitively, in terms of
PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTION. The cost of de- price and quality, in the highly competitive and
veloping a sophisticated pharmaceutical industry rapidly changing pharmaceuticals market. Im-
with a significant research base is huge. During proved selection and purchasing practicesrather
1961-90, 90 percent of the approximately 2,000 than protection of drug manufacturingwill usu-
"new chemical entities" (new drugs) brought on ally be the best ways to counter the market power
the market were discovered in only ten OECD of international suppliers of drugs.
countries. Five countries in the developing
worldArgentina, China, India, Korea, and Mex- IMPROVING STORAGE AND DISTRIBUTION. Theft,
icodiscovered, developed, and marketed at least spoilage, and shortages are major problems facing
one new chemical entity between 1961 and 1990. public distribution in many countries. Systems for
Several other developing countriesamong them, inventory control, port clearing, storage, and de-

147


--- Page 162 ---
livery can address many of these problems. In providers cannot possibly review all the informa-
Zimbabwe a standard nationwide system of stock tion available on the quality, safety, and efficacy of
control was fundamental to recent reforms in the drugs and vaccines, governmental involvement in
drug supply system. Surveys show a gradual im- regulation and in provision of information is nec-
provement in drug availability: in 1991 the facili- essary. In addition, the government must manage
ties surveyed had 78 percent of the representative drug selection, procurement, and distribution for
essential drugs in stock, up from 38 percent in publicly provided health services. To support the
1987. In hospitals, management information sys- rational use of drugs, governments can:
tems help to track periods of drug validity and to Develop a national list of essential drugs and
analyze rotation rates and drug consumption. direct public finance to those drugs that support
the essential package of clinical services and public
Influencing prescription and self-medication health interventions.
patterns Purchase drugs competitively and reduce or
eliminate protection of local pharmaceutical pro-
Significant efficiencies can be achieved by improv- duction of vaccines and drugs. These policies work
ing prescription and self-medication practices. to consumers' benefit. Efficient local industry is
Widespread overprescription and inappropriate best created under competitive conditions.
prescription have been documented in most coun- Provide information to public and private pro-
tries. For example, recent surveys found that the viders and consumers on drug use and cost-effec-
average number of drugs prescribed per single tiveness and establish regulations that discourage
consultation in public health centers ranged from overuse or overprescription.
1.3 in Zimbabwe and Ecuador to as high as 3.3 in
Indonesia and 3.8 in Nigeria. These surveys also Generating information and strengthening
documented that unnecessarily high proportions research
of drugs were being administered in the form of
injections (which carry the risk of abscesses, nerve In health, as elsewhere, good information facili-
injuries, and transmission of infectious disease) tates sound decisionmaking. Although some basic
and that extensive overuse of antibiotics was oc- health information is generated by the private sec-
curring. A survey of seventy-five pharmacies in tor without government involvement, the govern-
three Asian countries found that only sixteen gave ment has a central role in requiring, standardizing,
appropriate advice regarding oral rehydration for and financing the collection, analysis, and dissem-
treatment of diarrhea in infants. ination of health information, as well as in financ-
Public policies for improving prescription and ing health systems research. Governments are al-
medication practices include: ready heavily involved in data collection.
Distribution to health care providers and Unfortunately, the data are often irrelevant to p01-
pharmacists of regularly updated essential drug icy and program design. And too often, the private
lists or formularies that include descriptions of sector is ignored when statistics are being gath-
use, dose, adverse reactions, and costs; examples ered. Revamping health information systems is an
include the British National Formulary and the attractive investment, both because it is relatively
Uganda Drug Formulary inexpensive and because poor decisions based on
Strengthening of medical and nursing train- inadequate information can be very costly. But the
ing regarding pharmacology, appropriate prescrib- impact of information systems depends crucially
ing practices, and problems caused by over- on the decisionmaking environment. Even the
prescription and unnecessary use of injections best systems may be seen as irrelevant if managers
Public education on appropriate drug use, the have no incentive or scope for using information to
disadvantages of injections when oral doses are improve efficiency. Information helps guide
available, and the importance of compliance with choices among the existing options, and invest-
the full course of therapy ments in research and development create new
Removal of financial incentives that encour- options, both for households and for providers of
age physicians to overprescribe. care. It can be argued that investments in research
Unlike facilities, equipment, and human re- have been the source of the enormous improve-
sources, pharmaceuticals and vaccines are an area ments in health in this century. This section dis-
in which government policies can alter input use cusses ways of ensuring continued benefits from
relatively quickly. And good policies could make a research, as well as the role of the international
significant contribution. Because consumers and community in this task.

148


--- Page 163 ---
Understanding health status and health risks Some countries have established surveillance
An essential step toward improving health is to systems that rely on sentinel districts selected to be
understand the distribution of disease, death, and roughly representative of the country. To improve
disability. This requires the systematic collection, the speed and accuracy of reporting, data collec-
analysis, and dissemination of timely and accurate tion systems are upgraded in these districts to a
information on mortality, morbidity, and risk fac- greater degree than could be done for the country
tors. Such data are a cornerstone of public health as a whole. Cause-specific death rates, vaccine
efforts in any country, and the government's role coverage, the effectiveness of vaccines, and the
is central in creating them because the private sec- impact of specific health interventions are then
tor has little interest in producing such public monitored intensively within the district. National
goods. Epidemiological data are used to estimate household surveys can also generate a wealth of
the magnitude of health problems, study risk fac- information on health status, risk factors, and the
tors, evaluate health programs and the effective- utilization of health services according to age, sex,
ness of interventions, detect epidemics, facilitate region, and racial and ethnic group (see Box 6.4).
planning, and monitor changes in health practices. Unlike government health service statistics, popu-
These data could be used to estimate a national lation-based surveys cover nonusers as well as
burden of disease similar to the global burden of users of public services.
disease estimated for this Report. The national Monitoring health spending and equity
burden of disease would quantify the loss of
healthy life from the diseases that are important in Previous chapters have recommended redirecting
the specific country. It could be used to monitor public spending to nationally defined essential
and track over time improvements in both mortal- clinical services, targeted largely to the poor, and
ity and morbidity. to public health interventions, leaving to private

Box 6.4 The contribution of standardized survey programs to health information
Three internationally supported standardized house- immunizations, health care behavior, and other aspects
hold survey programs have contributed immensely to of child health. DHS survey information has been used
knowledge of health conditions, particularly those of for purposes as diverse as examining the effects of eco-
children, in the developing world over the past three nomic reversals on demographic outcomes and study-
decades. The World Fertility Survey (WFS) sponsored ing small area variations in child mortality risks in ur-
forty-three surveys between 1974 and 1982, with fund- ban areas.
ing from the U.S. Agency for International Develop- Neither survey program has collected detailed eco-
ment (USAID) and the United Nations Population nomic information on households and communities.
Fund (UNPF) and some country contributions toward The World Bank's Living Standards Measurement Sur-
the costs of survey fieldwork. The Demographic and vey (LSMS) was designed to fill this need by studying
Health Surveys (DHS) program, started in 1984, has so the determinants and interactions of poverty, health,
far implemented thirty-nine surveys in thirty coun- education, nutrition, and labor activities. The survey
tries; the third phase of the survey program, with a collects a wealth of information about incomes, pro-
planned twenty-five surveys, is about to begin. The duction, and prices. Some LSMS surveys are funded
DHS program has received funding from USAID, with through World Bank-financed projects, but many have
contributions from countries and other donors. received grant support from a variety of bilateral do-
Both the WFS and the DHS program have used a nors, the UNDP, and other agencies.
common core questionnaire around which special The experience with these standardized surveys in-
topics could be explored. The core WFS questionnaire dicates the great value of using comparable survey pro-
was primarily concerned with fertility and fertility- cedures and instruments across countries and the im-
related behavior; for each eligible woman it included a portance of rigorous supervision at all stages of the
birth history, recording the date of each birth and, if survey operation, from sampling to data processing.
the child had died, the age at death. This information The LSMS and DHS programs have been particularly
base has provided much of what is known about child successful with respect to turnaround time; prelimi-
mortality trends and the relationships between child nary findings from a survey are available within six
mortality and birth spacing, maternal education, and weeks of the conclusion of fieldwork, and a final report
household characteristics. The DHS questionnaire, in typically becomes available within one year.
addition to a birth history, includes questions about
.-
149


--- Page 164 ---
finance health services outside the essential pack- National research priorities
age. Private expenditures are always difficult to
estimate, but even in the public sector, spending is Governments have a role in supporting the re-
poorly disaggregated by use. By revamping infor- search necessary for understanding specific local
mation systems, estimates can be made of spend- health problems and for guiding public policymak-
ing on public health interventions and on catego- ing and program design. This "essential national
ries of inputs (essential drugs, nonessential drugs, health research," which is also undertaken by the
primary care physicians, other primary care pro- private sector, examines health strategy in more
viders, specialists, health centers, district hospi- depth than is done with day-to-day budgetary and
tals, and tertiary hospitals). Although still imper- management information. The international com-
fect, such estimates better capture the nature of munity can help both in gathering data for interna-
government spending. In addition, public expen- tional comparisons and in assisting local institu-
ditures need to be regularly consolidated across tions to build up capacity in epidemiology, health
federal, state, and local levels for analysis. In Bra- economics, health policy, and management. Re-
zil, where state and local governments account for search priorities in this area include cost-effective-
about half of all public spending on health, expen- ness analysis of health interventions, evaluations
diture estimates are available only for federal of medical practice and of variations in practice
spending (except for 1984). Much less information (see Box 6.5), and studies of drug utilization, eq-
is compiled from state and municipal levels, de- uity, consumer satisfaction, and women's health.
spite their importance. Household surveys can Where the national burden of disease is high
collect appropriate information for monitoring and cost-effective interventions already exist, re-
who benefits from public health spending. In part search can guide program implementation. One
because such data are lacking, analyses of equity such example is the problem of intestinal parasitic
in health care have been carried out in only a worms. How can local programs be best designed
handful of developing countries, among them Co- to reach children? How can involvement of school
lombia, Costa Rica, Côte d'Ivoire, Indonesia, Ma- officials be fostered? Another area is tuberculosis,
laysia, and Peru. where treatment compliance is a chronic problem;

Box 6.5 Evaluating cesarean sections in Brazil

Operations research can examine variations in medical systematic variations by region, type of hospital, socio-
practice with a view to identifying areas in which economic status of the woman, and reimbursement
changes in practice are needed, as well as possible in- patterns. Rates in 1981 were higher in the more pros-
struments for modifying provider practice. In the early perous Southeast (38 percent) and lowest in the poor
1980s Brazil was estimated to have the highest overall Northeast (20 percent). In every region the incidence of
cesarean section rate in the world-31 percent of all cesarean section increased with family income. A 1986
hospital births in 1981. Although cesarean sections are survey showed that rates were highest for women with
a life-saving procedure in certain circumstances, their a university education (61 percent) and for births in
unnecessary use raises costs and poses medical risks private hospitals (57 percent). Other studies showed
for the mother and the newborn. The financial cost of that rates were lowest among women with no insur-
unnecessary publicly financed cesareans in Brazil was ance. Women covered under the social security system
estimated at about $60 million annually in the late had higher rates of cesarean section, and women with
1980s. Medical risks stem from incorrect estimation of private insurance had the highest.
the length of gestation (leading to premature deliv- The country's social security institute changed its re-
eries), infection from surgery, and the use of general imbursement policies in the early 1980s to remove
anesthesia. Among the many factors responsible for some of the financial incentives for cesarean sections,
the rising rate of cesareans in Brazil are the financial and education campaigns for physicians were initiated.
and administrative incentives for hospitals and doctors But it is clear that even stronger policies are needed to
to perform cesarean deliveries, the desire to use a Ce- reverse these trends, as cesarean section rates have
sarean delivery as a vehicle for obtaining a sterilization, continued at high levels. A large sample of births in the
and the widespread view that cesarean section is the state of São Paulo in 1991, for example, indicated a
preferred, "modern" way to deliver. cesarean section rate of 47 percent.
Brazilian studies of cesarean section rates illustrate

150


--- Page 165 ---
patients often stop taking medication once they laundry, food preparation, and laboratory testing.
feel better, but before the problem has been effec- Systems that gather information on vaccine utiliza-
tively treated. What program approaches work tion, equipment and vehicle inventories, preven-
best in different settings to ensure compliance tive maintenance for buildings and equipment,
with directions? In nutrition, how can policies and personnel management, and the like are also
programs promote dietary change most effec- fundamental.
tively? Solutions to these problems are not univer- Ministries of health frequently pay little atten-
sal. Research must be local, and often public sup- tion to the activities of private providers, instead
port is needed. focusing all data collection efforts on public pro-
In its 1990 report the Commission on Health Re- viders. To remedy this, governments can collect
search for Development recommended the forma- basic information about private providers and the
tion of international partnerships or networks to population covered under private insurance plans.
focus on ensuring that national health resources They can require standardized reporting from
are used to maximum effect. The International both public and private hospitals through uniform
Network for the Rational Use of Drugs (INRUD), hospital discharge data. The information can then
established in 1989, is one such network. Another be synthesized to provide consumers, health re-
is the International Clinical Epidemiology Net- searchers, and communities with information
work (INCLEN), which was started in the early about the quality of care given by providers, both
1980s by the Rockefeller Foundation to build up a public and private, and about variations in medical
critical mass of researchers in clinical epidemiol- practice. These systems can generate sophisticated
ogy, including epidemiologists, health econo- information; consumers in California, for example,
mists, social scientists, and biostatisticians. IN- can obtain risk-adjusted mortality rates by hospital
CLEN enrolls midcareer academic physicians who for common procedures. But relatively simple
hold positions of influence in the medical systems measures can also be useful; an example is ce-
of developing countries. It provides overseas sarean section rates, by hospital, which can help
study opportunities, support for research, and the identify overuse of this procedure (see Box 6.5).
opportunity to participate in annual scientific Such standardized information about hospital per-
meetings. The network concept has permitted formance can help consumers make better choices
units to share experiences and teaching materials about health care and can help central authorities
and to carry out collaborative research between identify problems to be corrected.
clinical epidemiology units, training centers, and If there are incentives for using information in
the international health community. Capacity decisionmaking, improvements in data gathering
building is a lengthy process, but INCLEN has al- can often be inspired simply by giving those who
ready influenced health policy. Research on the need the information more training in how to col-
effectiveness and efficiency of hepatitis B immu- lect it and more responsibility for doing so. District
nization in the Philippines brought about the addi- medical officers, hospital superintendents, and
tion of hepatitis B vaccine to the national EPI pro- health care managers are usually not trained to
gram. Studies on the cost-effectiveness of short- make the best use of data. Whenever possible, tab-
course chemotherapy for tuberculosis have led to a ulation of data should be decentralized so that lo-
change in national treatment policies in Brazil, the cal decisionmakers can immediately use the infor-
Philippines, and Thailand. mation instead of relying on feedback from central
Improving information at the district and facility levels levels. In Papua New Guinea, for example, when
local-level staff began to see the relevance of man-
Health organizations also benefit from improve- agement information for their work, they sought
ment of the information needed to make everyday to verify data and to eliminate reporting that was
management decisions. In publicly provided dis- irrelevant.
trict health facilities, simple management informa- To summarize, governments have a twofold role
tion systems for measuring costs, inputs, and pro- in health information systems and operational re-
duction could be helpful for monitoring program search: generating the information necessary to
efforts over time and for making decisions about guide health policies and public spending and pro-
how to combine inputs efficiently. Yet many public viding certain types of information about provider
facilities operate without such information. With- performance that would be too costly for con-
out basic data on costs, it is difficult to decide, for sumers to collect. To this end, governments can:
example, whether to contract out services such as Gather and synthesize epidemiological and

151


--- Page 166 ---
Table 6.2 Some priorities for research and product development, ranked by the top six contributors
to the global burden of disease
Associated DALY loss (millions)
Demographically
developing
Disease or injury countries FSE and EME Priority areas
Perinatal and 125 4 Methods of lowering costs of intervention and
maternal causes improving delivery in rural areas.
Respiratory infections 119 4 Impact of indoor air pollution on pneumonia (to guide
interventions designed to reduce pneumonia by use
of improved stoves); inexpensive or simplified
antibiotic regimens; inexpensive, simple, reliable
diagnostics; pneumococcal vaccine
Diarrheal diseases 99 - Rotavirus and enterotoxigenic E. coli vaccines;
improved cholera vaccine; ways of improving
hygiene; better case management of persistent
diarrhea; prevention of diarrhea by the promotion of
breastfeeding and improved weaning practices
Ischemic heart and 58 27 Low-cost prevention, diagnosis, and management
cerebrovascular disease methods
Childhood cluster: 67 Development of new and improved vaccines to reduce
diphtheria, polio, patient contacts, permit immunization at younger
pertussis, measles, and ages, and improve heat stability of some vaccines
tetanus

Tuberculosis 46 1 Methods of ensuring compliance; monitoring tools for
drug resistance; simpler diagnostics; new and
cheaper drugs
All conditions" 1,210 152
Note: The demographically developing countries are those in the Sub-Saharan Africa, India, China, Other Asia and islands, Latin America and
the Caribbean, and Middle Eastern crescent regions. FSE, formerly socialist economies of Europe. EME, established market economies. DALYs,
disability-adjusted life years; see Box 1.3.
Less than 0.5 million.
Total for all conditions presented in Appendix B.
Source: Appendix B.

other information necessary to monitor health sta- malaria; oral rehydration therapy; antibiotics and
tus, detect disease outbreaks, and guide public other antimicrobials; and synthetic hormonal
policy and program design contraceptives.
Support research, where needed, to generate Basic research and product development are
local solutions to local problems public goods that require support through govern-
Facilitate standardization of information ment subsidy or intervention (for example, grants
about health production and health outcomes by of patents). In addition, because the poor in devel-
district health systems and other major health pro- oping countries lack market power, the system of
viders; where necessary, synthesize and publicize patent protection fails to provide incentives to the
this information to aid consumers in making in- commercial sector for developments related to dis-
formed choices about health care. eases of the poor. Thus, there is a clear argument
for government and international assistance to cat-
Expanding the range of choice alyze technological development. In the develop-
ing world many serious health problems do not
A revolution in health care technology has taken present sufficiently attractive commercial markets
place in the course of this century. Significant bio- to induce the development by private companies
medical breakthroughs that have generated inter- of better methods of prevention, diagnosis, and
national benefitsfor developing countries as well treatment. Developing countries account for al-
as for the established market economiesinclude most 90 percent of the global burden of disease,
the development of measles, pertussis, polio, and and much of that burden is from conditions such
tetanus vaccines; chioroquine for the treatment of as malaria or tuberculosis that primarily occur in

152


--- Page 167 ---
those countries. Only about 5 percent of the $30 eases: measles, tetanus, pertussis, diphtheria,
billion global investment in health research in 1986 polio, and tuberculosis. It requires at least seven
went to health problems unique to developing patient contacts (two for the pregnant mother and
countries. five for the infant). Possible improvements in vac-
Setting priorities cine technology would reduce multidose vaccines
to a single dose, improve the heat stability of vac-
Where is extra research really likely to pay off? cines, simplify administrative requirements (to
Table 6.2 suggests priorities for research on pre- permit greater use of oral vaccines as compared
vention, diagnosis, and case management for the with injections, for example), create new combina-
six conditions that make the largest contributions tions of vaccines to reduce patient contacts, inte-
to the global burden of disease. These conditions grate new vaccines into the immunization sched-
account for about 40 percent of the DALYs lost in ule, permit vaccination earlier in life to reduce
demographically developing countries and for infant deaths caused by vaccine-preventable dis-
about 25 percent of the losses in industrial coun- eases, and add to the menu of interventions new
tries (where cardiovascular disease accounts for vaccinesfor example, against diarrhea and pneu-
much of the burden). If the global burden caused monia. These innovations would reduce some of
by a disease is large, if no cost-effective interven- the costs and improve the effectiveness of vaccina-
tions exist, and if experts believe that such inter- tion programs. An important source of support for
ventions might be developed, there is a case for this research is the Children's Vaccine Initiative
greater investment in research and product devel- (CVI), which is identifying measures for catalyzing
opment. One example that meets these criteria is technological development in these areas. The
inexpensive, simple, and reliable diagnostics for CVI, which has its secretariat at WHO, is an inter-
respiratory infections. For problems that create a national effort to harness new technologies that
large burden of disease and for which cost-effec- can advance the immunization of children.
tive interventions already exist, there is a need to TROPICAL DISEASES. It is primarily the rural poor
direct efforts more toward program development who suffer from tropical diseases such as malaria,
and operational research to guide implementation. schistosomiasis, lymphatic filariasis, onchocer-
For example, little is known about low-cost ciasis (river blindness), trypanosomiasis, and lep-
methods of managing ischemic heart disease in rosy. These diseases create a high burden, and ex-
developing country settings. One low-cost ap- isting interventions are inadequate against many
proach that is being adopted in many industrial of them. The UNDP-World Bank-WHO Special
countries is the use of low daily doses of aspirin to Programme for Research and Training in Tropical
reduce the risk of obstructive blood clots inside the Diseases (TDR) is developing partnerships with
arteries. This approach, developed on the basis of commercial entities, national governments, scien-
the results of large-scale assessments of the effi- tists, and NGOs to support research and drug de-
cacy of the intervention, illustrates the potential velopment for these diseases. One strategy the
benefits of research on low-cost case management. program has adopted is to look for new applica-
International agencies and governments can tions of drugs already in use in human or veteri-
stimulate research on health and product develop- nary medicine. An example is the use of ivermec-
ment in several ways. They can provide informa- tin, a drug originally marketed by Merck & Co. for
tion on potential markets for new products, in- treating worms in animals, in the fight against on-
cluding epidemiological data about the disease, chocerciasis in human populations (see Box 1.1).
the target population, and the technical require- The TDR program facilitated the field testing of
ments of desirable innovations. They can subsi- this product on a large scale for human use. The
dize a portion of the development costs. They can results showed that the drug was very safe, that it
facilitate or finance field evaluations in a variety of could be distributed by primary health care
settings and support introduction of the technol- workers, and that one oral dose per year could
ogy in the field. Finally, they can provide procure- prevent or arrest blindness. As a veterinary prod-
ment guarantees for new or improved products at uct, ivermectin has estimated annual sales of $500
an agreed-on price. A few examples illustrate the million; Merck & Co. agreed to supply the drug
potential. without charge to governments for treatment of

Nuw AND IMPROVED CHILDHOOD VACCINES. The human onchocerciasis. The TDR's network of in-
EPI currently includes vaccines against six dis- ternationally funded research centers in develop-

153


--- Page 168 ---
Box 6.6 An unmet need: inexpensive and simple diagnostics for STDs
This Report recommends that concerted efforts be stick, developed by the Program for Appropriate Tech-
made to develop or strengthen effective programs for nology for Health with support from Canada's Interna-
control of STDs. Such efforts will be hampered by the tional Development Research Centre (IDRC) and from
challenges of diagnosing STDs, particularly in women, private funds, uses synthetic peptides and a color
for whom the vast majority of infections are asympto- change to provide an easily performed test. The test
matic. Current methods are often unreliable and ex- takes twenty minutes, requires only three simple steps,
pensive, and their use requires refrigeration, electric- is stable for six months at tropical temperatures, has a
ity, and sophisticated equipment and training. In pattern of sensitivity and specificity similar to commer-
addition, certain tests require patients to return in one cially available tests, and costs less than $0.20. Thus,
or two days, which is not feasible when, as is often the the per patient cost for testing can be brought down to
case, the patient must travel a long distance to receive less than $1.00, including a confirmatory second test.
health care. Even if patients return, the period of infec- This test is now being commercially produced in India
tivity is prolonged by this delay in therapy. Syndromic- and Thailand. The Canadian International Develop-
based approaches to treating STDs are currently being ment Agency (CIDA) is funding the establishment of a
used to bridge this gap and are effective for men. For production facility in Cameroon, and there is interest
women, however, these approaches are less accurate. in production in Brazil, Indonesia, and Zimbabwe.
New diagnostics that are inexpensive, simple, and The STD Diagnostics Initiative, which is funded by
convenient to use and provide rapid, stable, and accu- multiple donors, was established to facilitate develop-
rate results would overcome these problems. An exam- ment of appropriate diagnostics for resource-limited
ple of such a tool is a new HIV test. The availability of settings. The initiative, being carried out in collabora-
HJV testing has been limited by high cost, complexity, tion with industry, clarifies and validates performance
and requirements for reagents that need refrigeration criteria for STD diagnostics, organizes and supports
and have a short shelf life. Even when labor costs are field trials, provides seed money for the development
excluded, testing and confirmation can cost $25 to $50 of new diagnostics, and brokers bulk purchases to cre-
(although this cost is declining rapidly). The HIV dip- ate markets of adequate size.

ing countries allowed it to respond quickly and cancer, rapid plasma finger-stick diagnostic tools
flexibly to the opportunity to test ivermectin. for syphilis, and new diagnostic tests for malaria
Women spend up to half of their reproductive for use at the local level. (Box 6.6 provides another
lives pregnant or lactating. Many protocols for example.) Rapid diagnostic tests avoid reliance on
treating tropical diseases exclude these women other levels of the health system because the
and sometimes even large numbers of women health center, if supplied with the necessary
who might be pregnant (such as adolescent girls). drugs, can treat the problem on the spot. Innova-
Blanket exclusion of pregnant or lactating women tions in medical equipment to reduce the cost or
has been the result not of clear evidence of prob- improve the effectiveness of preventing and treat-
lems but of reluctance to carry out appropriate ing problems at the health center level are high
drug trials on pregnant women. There is an urgent priorities for research and development.
need to evaluate drug treatments for such women
so that health services can offer them better treat- International aspects
ment. This is part of a much broader problem of
the common omission of women from medical Some types of research and product development
studies and clinical trials in both developing and are costly; it can cost more than $100 million to
industrial countries. bring a new drug to market. But several break-
throughs in medical technology have been inex-
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT. Another priority area for pensive. (One of them, oral rehydration therapy,
research and development is the development of is now widely recognized as an effective way of
low-cost and efficient diagnostic technologies for treating acute watery diarrhea, which, untreated,
use in health centers in developing countries can weaken or kill young children.) The need for
where sophisticated laboratories are unavailable. public support for certain types of research is
Examples of potentially important new technolo- widely understood. The international community
gies are visual methods of screening for cervical has played an important role in supporting health

154


--- Page 169 ---
research, and most governments support some re- dertaken by the private sector at socially optimal
search as well. Over the short to medium term, levels. (Even research that is internationally fi-
developing countries can use their scarce public nanced will take place principally in developing
resources best if: countries and will be done increasingly by scien-
Governments reduce or eliminate finance of tists from developing countries.) The total invest-
basic biomedical research that generates interna- ment in health technology research relevant to the
tional benefits (which is best supported by the in- needs of the developing countries is woefully in-
ternational community) and redirect it toward re- adequate in relation to its potential benefits. And
search efforts that generate primarily national the level of international coordination and cooper-
benefits ation falls well short of what is required. An inter-
The international community directs research national mechanism with stable funding over the
support toward new and improved technologies medium to long term could more effectively build
where the expected social returns are highest and research capacity in developing countries. Donors
would benefit many countries. and governments also need to give more support
International financing is needed for important to activities for testing new technologies and incor-
biomedical research when the benefits transcend porating them into health systems.
national borders and the research will not be un-

155


--- Page 170 ---
An agenda for action

The policy conclusions of this Report can be tai- quire donor backing for major reforms in the al-
lored to the widely varying circumstances of de- location of public spending for health and in
veloping countries. This chapter highlights the pri- health policy more generally.
ority policy issues and actions that are likely to be The effectiveness of donor spending can be im-
most relevant for three groups of countries: low- proved through increased investment in basic
income countries in Africa and South Asia, mid- public health measures and essential clinical care,
dle-income countries in Latin America and East steps to strengthen the policy and regulatory
Asia, and the formerly socialist countries of Eu- framework for insurance and for delivery of ser-
rope and Central Asia. It describes the reforms vices, and backing for research to expand the
needed in the health sector and assesses their fea- range of cost-effective treatments available to the
sibility, examines the principal obstacles to reform, poor in developing countries. Aid for lower-prior-
and outlines possible strategies for overcoming ity items, including tertiary care hospitals and
these obstacles. Although policy reform must deal training of medical specialists, needs to be corre-
with difficult underlying problems, the experience spondingly reduced or eliminated.
of a number of developing countries with imple- Finally, improved coordination among donors
menting significant policy changes shows that suc- could raise the effectiveness of aid. Despite the
cess is possible. many serious obstacles, the recent experience of a
This chapter also examines the role of the inter- number of African and Asian countries shows that
national community in supporting improvements such coordination can be achieved.
in health policies and programs in developing
countries. Despite widespread calls for more do- Health policy reform in developing countries
nor investment in human resources and in poverty
reduction programs, aid flows to the health sector The policies that this Report suggests should be at
declined from 7 percent of total development assis- the top of the agenda for developing countries and
tance in the early 1980s to 6 percent in the latter the donor community are summarized in Table
half of the 1980s. Donors need to match their ver- 7.1. This section describes those policies and pro-
bal commitments with actions: the share of aid for vides examples of successful policy reforms in var-
health should be restored to its previous level im- ious developing countries.
mediately and should be increased substantially
over the next five years. An additional $2 billion in Low-income countries
aid would help to finance the transitional cost of
health policy reforms, as well as priority pro- Previous chapters have outlined the main charac-
grams, including AIDS prevention. At the same teristics of health systems in low-income coun-
time, donors and developing countries need to tries. In general, there is little public or private
focus on measures to improve the effectiveness of insurance. Out-of-pocket spending for drugs, tra-
external assistance for health. Doing so will re- ditional medicine, and user fees usually accounts

156


--- Page 171 ---
Table 7.1 The relevance of policy changes for three country groups

Government objectives and policies

Foster an enabling environment for households to improve health

Pursue economic growth policies that benefit the poor

Expand investment in education, particularly for females
Promote the rights and status of women through political and
economic empowerment and legal protection against abuse
Improve government investments in health
Reduce government expenditures for tertiary care facilities,
specialist training, and discretionary services
Finance and ensure delivery of a public health package, including
AIDS prevention
Finance and ensure delivery of essential clinical services, at least to
the poor

Improve the management of public health services

Facilitate involvement by the private sector
Encourage private finance and provision of insurance (with
incentives to contain costs) for all discretionary clinical services
Encourage private sector delivery of clinical services, including
those that are publicly financed
Provide information on performance and cost

Very relevant 0 Relevant 0 Somewhat relevant Not relevant

for more than half of total spending for health. unlicensed practitioners in South Asia) account for
Government financing from general tax reve- the remainder of the health facilities and deliver
nuesand sometimes substantial donor contribu- most outpatient care. They offer a service that is
tionsaccount for the remainder. Government perceived to be of higher quality than that pro-
hospitals and clinics provide the bulk of modern vided by the public sector. Large segments of the
medical care, but they suffer from highly central- population, especially the rural poor, do not have
ized decisionmaking, wide fluctuations in annual access to modern health services. Female literacy
budget allocations, and poor motivation of both and enrollment of girls in primary and secondary
facility managers and health care workers. Minis- school are low.
tries of health and other government agencies of- Five policies for better health are crucial in this
ten have only limited capacity to formulate health environment: providing solid primary schooling
policy, implement health plans, and regulate the for all children, especially girls; investing more re-
private sector. Private providers (mainly religious sources in highly cost-effective public health activ-
organizations in Africa and private physicians and ities that can substantially improve the health of

157


--- Page 172 ---
the poor; shifting health spending for clinical ser- sary radio and telephone networks; and building
vices from tertiary care facilities to district health the capacity to plan and manage health services at
infrastructure capable of delivering essential clini- the district level and in individual facilities. In
cal care; reducing waste and inefficiency in gov- many low-income countries, focusing on district
ernment health programs; and encouraging in- health infrastructure will mean limiting new in-
creased community control and financing of vestment in central hospitals and reorienting those
essential health care. facilities toward research and teaching activities
INCREASED SCHOOLING. Despite the often formi- that are more relevant to key national health prob-
dable obstaclesboth in providing access to lems. At the same time, there is considerable scope
schools and in eliminating cultural barriers that for improving the efficiency of large government
keep girls outa number of low-income countries hospitals, especially through performance-linked
have proved that dramatic change is possible in a incentives for managers and staff and expanded
short period of time. Between 1970 and 1990 Indo- cost recovery from the wealthy and insured.
nesia and Kenya, for example, achieved rapid and To deliver essential clinical services, a greater
sustained growth of primary school enrollments share of government health budgets needs to be
and raised the proportion of girls to nearly half of devoted to the operations of lower-level facilities
all pupils. These gains were brought about by a and especially to nonsalary recurrent items. Initial
combination of high-level political commitment to emphasis needs to be placed on building capacity
universal primary schooling, information pro- to deliver the services included in the minimum
grams that created stronger demand on the part of essential package described in Chapter 5. This is
parents, and support from the international now happening in a number of countries. Senegal
community. has set annual targets for increasing its spending
for drugs, transport, and maintenance. Ghana is
INVESTMENT IN PUBLIC HEALTH ACTIVITIES. The trying to reduce the number of civil servants work-
public health activities with the largest payoff will ing for the Ministry of Health. In India, where
vary from country to country: vitamin A and io- state governments account for more than three-
dine supplementation in India and Indonesia, quarters of total public spending for health, the
antismoking campaigns in China, and policies to central government is attempting to act as a cata-
reduce traffic injuries in urban areas of Sub- lyst for more cost-effective resource allocation by
Saharan Africa. Completion of immunization cov- earmarking its funds for immunization, treatment
erage should be a high priority in all low-income of leprosy and tuberculosis, and AIDS control.
countries, especially in India and in much of Sub- Some low-income countries will need to in-
Saharan Africa, where coverage remains low. Sim- crease government outlays for health if they are to
ilarly, a greatly intensified effort to reduce trans- finance a package of public health measures and
mission of HIV and other sexually transmitted dis- essential clinical services for the poor. In 1990 gov-
eases is warranted. In the parts of Africa in which ernment spending for health in low-income coun-
the AIDS epidemic is already widespread, behav- tries averaged only $6 per capita-1.5 percent of
ioral change through education and condom distri- GNP if foreign assistance is excluded and 1.6 per-
bution should be high on the list of public health cent including aid. The analysis in this Report in-
actions. And where, as in Bangladesh and Indo- dicates that provision of a minimum package will
nesia, the preconditions (widespread commercial cost about $12 per capita in low-income countries,
sex and high prevalence of other STD5) exist for or nearly 3 percent of GNP. Effective targeting of
rapid spread of HIV, governments urgently need publicly subsidized clinical services to the poor,
to take steps to halt the spread of AIDS from high- and corresponding efforts to encourage cost recov-
risk groups into the population at large. ery from more affluent groups, would help stretch
limited government budgets. Modest fees col-
BETrER ALLOCATION OF SPENDING ON CLINICAL lected at health centers could also be retained and
SERVICES. Governments should invest in distfict reinvested locally to improve the quality and re-
health infrastructure by (as described in Chapter 6) liability of basic services.
expanding training programs for primary care pro- But even with these efforts, many governments
viders, particularly nurses and midwives; target- in low-income countries will have to increase the
ing construction funds to improve health posts, share of the budget allocated to health. (In Sub-
health centers, and district hospitals; financing Saharan Africa health spending declined during
ambulances and other vehicles needed for effec- the 1980s to an average of less than 4 percent of
tive emergency transport, together with the neces- public expenditure and less than 2 percent of
158


--- Page 173 ---
Box 7.1 Community financing of health centers: the Bamako Initiative

The principal aim of the Bamako Initiative, launched in The initiative is only five years old, but its achieve-
1988, is to "revitalize the public sector health care de- ments are impressive. Eighteen African countries were
livery system [byl strengthening district management participating as of late 1991, and nearly 1,800 health
[andi capturing some of the resources the people them- centers located in 221 districts were part of the pro-
selves are spending on health" (UNICEF 1992). gram. In Benin the first forty-four health centers tar-
Both revolving funds for drug purchases and com- geted by the initiative are covering 42 to 46 percent of
munity-managed health centers have existed for many their operating costs with user charges, and in the first
years in developing countries, but the Bamako Initia- seventeen centers in Guinea's program, user fees cover
tive is attempting to implement these schemes on a 38 to 49 percent of expenditures. Utilization of health
much larger scale in Africa and other low-income coun- centers has increased. In Benin average monthly visits
tries. The initiative is based on two premises: that to pilot health centers rose from 100 in 1987 to 250 in
where public institutions are weak, as they are in many 1989.
low-income countries, bottom-up action by commu- Despite the initiative's promising accomplishments,
nities is badly needed to complement top-down health it is not yet certain that the reforms can be sustained Ofl
policy reforms, and that even poor households are will- a large scale. A number of health centers covered by
ing to pay for higher-quality and more reliable health the initiative have received both financial and technical
services. assistance from UNICEF, WHO, and other donors
Under the initiative, members of local communities more than $36 million has come from UNICEF alone.
who use a health center or pharmacy agree to pay mod- Problems may emerge when this external assistance
est charges for outpatient care, including drugs. The ends, particularly in converting local revenues gener-
revenues generated from fees are retained by the ated through user charges into the foreign exchange
health centers and managed by local elected commit- needed to purchase imported drugs. In addition, ef-
tees. The committees reinvest in additional drugs forts to encourage local private financing of health care
(through a revolving fund), in incentive payments for by poor urban and rural households may allow govern-
health workers, and in other improvements. The gov- ments to avoid tackling basic reforms of their health
ernment and donors assist health centers in purchasing systems, especially the reallocation of public revenues
inexpensive generic drugs, thus increasing the cost- from tertiary care hospitals to more basic services.
effectiveness of services at the health center.

GNP.) Some countries are already moving in this in part through the use of essential national drug
direction. Mozambique, for example, is increasing lists, and by purchasing drugs competitively. Nu-
government outlays for health in 1992 and 1993 as merous successes have already been recorded.
part of a broader program of economic reform, and Bulk procurement of drugs enabled a group of
Mauritania is committed to substantial rises in church-run African health associations to save 40
government health spending during 1992-96. percent of their annual drug bill. Similar efforts by
Since shifts in domestic budget resources between several Caribbean states led to an average reduc-
sectors take several years to implement, donor tion of 44 percent in the price paid for the twenty-
funds could play a significant role in increasing five most frequently used drugs. An essential-
government health expenditures, including recur- drugs revolving fund for several Central American
rent spending, in the early years. The budget re- nations yielded savings of 65 percent of the costs
forms in both Mozambique and Mauritania are be- of pharmaceuticals.
ing supported by transitional financing from the
donor community. COMMUNITY CONTROL AND FINANCING. Com-
munity financing, in the form of user charges and
REDUCTION OF WASTE AND INEFFICIENCY. There is prepaid insurance schemes, has become a practical
substantial scope for reduction of waste and ineffi- necessity in a number of low-income countries.
ciency in government health programs, especially But community financing is also a virtuous neces-
in drug management. Pharmaceuticals, which ac- sity: it can help to improve the quality and re-
count for 10 to 30 percent of public spending for liability of services, in part by making health
health in most countries, are the most promising workers more accountable to their clienteles.
area for efficiency gains in the short run. Very This is the approach being taken in the Bamako
large savings can be achieved by improving the Initiative, sponsored by WHO and UNICEF (Box
selection and quantification of drug requirements, 7.1). Recent experience from a number of African
159


--- Page 174 ---
countries shows that rural households are pre- of the population receives services financed
pared to pay modest charges for drugs in govern- through general tax revenues. Other countries use
ment health centers, provided that the quality of social insurance, with part of the population cov-
services improves, that fees are retained and uti- ered by mandatory employment-based contribu-
lized at the point of service, and that the local tions, usually pooled in a single fund run by a
population has a strong voice in the operation of parastatal agency. The share of the population pro-
the facility. In Guinea, for example, about half of tected by social insurance varies widely, from less
the country's 350 health centers were practicing than 10 percent in the Dominican Republic, Ecua-
community financing in 1991. Of these, all the ur- dor, and El Salvador to more than 80 percent in
ban-based facilities and a third of the rural clinics Brazil, Costa Rica, and Cuba. Brazil and Chile em-
were able to cover their operating expenses with ploy hybrids of private and public insurance. In
income from fees. Governments should act cau- Brazil every citizen is legally entitled to services
tiously, however. Experience suggests that fees financed from a combination of general revenues
substantial enough to cover the full cost of clinical and social security contributions, and social insur-
services can discourage utilization by the poor. ance is deducted from the wages of every salaried
Under these circumstances, the poor should be worker. Yet more than one-fifth of the country's
charged reduced fees or should be exempted from population currently opts for some form of private
payment. insurance coverage.
Middle-income countries need to focus on at
PROBLEMS AND PROSPECTS. Health policy re- least four key areas of policy reform: phasing out
forms face formidable obstacles in low-income de- public subsidies to better-off groups; extending in-
veloping countries. The health ministry often surance coverage more widely; giving consumers
makes only a weak case for a larger share of the a choice of insurer; and encouraging payment
(sometimes shrinking) budget. Politicians, doc- methods that control costs.
tors, and the urban population exert strong pres-
sures for higher spending on tertiary care facilities REDUCTION OF SUBSIDIES TO BETFER-OFF GROUPS.
in the major metropolitan areas at the expense of Governments should reduce and eventually elimi-
the district health infrastructure. Professional as- nate public subsidies to relatively affluent groups.
sociations and trade unions representing doctors This can be done by charging full-cost fees to in-
and nurses strongly resist both staff cuts designed sured persons who use government hospitals and
to increase nonsalary spending and efforts to re- clinics for services not included in the national es-
deploy health workers to rural areas. Despite these sential clinical package and by cutting tax deduc-
obstacles, some low-income countries are cur- tions for insurance contributions. In South Africa
rently carrying out major health policy reforms. and Zimbabwe privately insured individuals have
Malawi, for example, is implementing sweeping been charged less than the full cost of the services
changes as part of a World Bank project. It is in- they receive in government health facilities. In ad-
creasing the share of the government budget allo- dition, they have been allowed to deduct from tax-
cated to health from 7.1 percent in 1991 to 9.1 per- able income part or all of their out-of-pocket pay-
cent by 1995, raising the fraction of health ments for health care, as well as their health
spending for district health services from 15 to 23 insurance premiums. Employers can also deduct
percent, and reducing the share devoted to the their insurance contributions. These measures re-
country's three central hospitals from 35 to 25 per- duce the amounts available for financing essential
cent. To strengthen the district health system, the services. In South Africa individual tax deductions
government is also engaging more than 3,500 new were estimated to be equivalent to 18 percent of
lower-level health workers to serve in rural clinics total public sector health expenditures in 1990. In a
and communities. Donor funds are being used to recent effort to reverse a similar situation, Zim-
help pay for these workers. babwe has sharply limited tax deductions for
Middle-income countries health care and insurance, raised fees, and inten-
sified efforts to collect fees from privately insured
In middle-income developing countries out-of- patients. Government hospitals have learned that
pocket payments for health usually account for they can often identify insured patients by offering
less than a third of total spending. Some middle- them extra nonmedical amenities, such as private
income countries, such as South Africa and Zim- hospital rooms, and can then target them for ag-
babwe, have private insurance, even though most gressive cost recovery if they accept.

160


--- Page 175 ---
In countries where social insurance covers only government, as in Germany, tend to be more ac-
a fraction of the population, governments can in- countable to their members. In a number of Latin
crease the extent to which health services are self- American countries monolithic social security "in-
financing by eliminating public subsidies to social stitutes" are already heavily discredited because of
insurance. These subsidies, which are widespread their past inefficiencies and corruption. Greater
in Latin America, mostly benefit the middle classes competition and accountability are two of the main
and are therefore regressive. Elimination of the objectives of current proposals for reforming social
subsidies would free resources for health services insurance in Argentina.
for the poor. Eliminating subsidies also imposes
more financial discipline on the social insurance COST CONTAINMENT. Copayment by insured in-
agencies, which are often allowed to run deficits dividuals for some services can help to restrain
that are later covered by transfers from other social their use of the services but is unlikely to be a very
security programs or from the general government powerful cost-containment method. Copayments
budget. In Venezuela, for example, the govern- amounting to an average 40 percent of expendi-
ment subsidizes contributions to the medical assis- tures in Korea have done little to slow the rate of
tance fund within the parastatal social security increase in health spending, which grew from 3.7
agency. Despite this subsidy, in 1990 the fund ran to 6.6 percent of GNP during the 1980s. Similarly,
a deficit equivalent to 37 percent of its health the practice, introduced by private U.S. insurers,
expenditures. of retrospective reviews of utilization of medical
care appears to lead to a modest one-time savings
EXTENSION OF INSURANCE. Where the bulk of the in health spending but does not have long-lasting
labor force is already employed, government poli- effects on the rate of growth of expenditures.
cies that extend insurance coverage to the rest of By contrast, prepayment of health care pro-
the populationincluding the self-employed, the viders is a promising approach to containing
elderly, and the poorremove the inequities in- health expenditures. Governments could help to
herent in multitiered systems of health financing promote such schemes by removing legal barriers
and expand the content of the universally available that in many countries prevent the same institu-
package of care. When insurance coverage be- tion from acting as both insurer and provider. In
comes universal, as in Costa Rica and Korea, sub- South Africa the government recently decided to
sidies actually end up targeting the poor and are allow the creation of health maintenance Organiza-
thus progressive. But only a few middle-income tions (HMO5), mainly as a way of containing
countries that have adequate financial resources, health costs. More than twenty such organizations
political resolve, and administrative capacity will have been established in just a few years. They
be able to achieve such universal insurance cover- have introduced capitation and negotiated fees,
age. Korea's bold initiative to create a national which limit costs more effectively than did the
health insurance system from scratch between open-ended fee-for-service payment arrangements
1978 and 1989 and Costa Rica's efforts in the 1980s historically used in South Africa.
to universalize a system that had previously cov- Governments can do much to improve the in-
ered only the industrial labor force show that this centives created by social insurance. Where the in-
is a difficult but achievable goal. Attaining univer- sured use private providers, fee-for-service pay-
sal coverage would be more feasible if govern- ment schemes need to be replaced with an
ments limited the essential package of insured ser- alternativecapitation or annually negotiated uni-
vices to those with high cost-effectiveness. form fees for doctors and hospitals (based on diag-
nostic-related groups of procedures, for example)
CONSUMER CHOICE. Competition among sup- or preset overall budgets for hospitals. Where so-
pliers of a clearly specified prepaid package of cial insurance covers services by government hos-
health services would improve quality and encour- pitals, competition with the private sector can im-
age efficiency. And even where there is little or no prove performance. Other promising approaches
direct competition among insurance funds, as in are to allow government hospitals to compete with
Japan and Korea, multiple semi-independent in- one another as semiautonomous enterprises, as in
surance institutions may still have advantages the United Kingdom in recent years, and to give
over a single large parastatal agency. Local insur- hospital managers financial and career incentives
ance funds managed by boards composed of rep- to meet performance targets, as in Chile.
resentatives of workers, employers, and local The example of Chile (Box 7.2) illustrates the

161


--- Page 176 ---
benefits and perils of health sector reform in a mid- the formerly socialist countries of Eastern Europe
dle-income country. Chile has been able to im- and the Soviet Union. Health expenditures were
prove efficiency, quality of care, and consumer financed from general revenues. In principle, they
choice, but the reforms have also created new were provided free of cost to the population at
problems regarding administration, financing, and government clinics and hospitals and at facilities
equity. run by state enterprises, but in practice, "infor-
Formerly socialist countries mal" payments oiled the wheels of bureaucracy.
Today the health systems in these countries are in
Historically, the government was responsible for severe crisis. Many doctors and pharmacists are
both the finance and the delivery of health care in leaving the government health services to practice

Box 7.2 Health sector reforms in Chile
Over the past fifteen years Chile has undertaken dra- had few incentives to help supervise municipal
matic reforms of its health sector, Its experience shows facilities.
that reform is a permanent process, not a one-time ef- Because municipalities were reimbursed for each
fort, and that countries undertaking reform must have unit of service delivered, they tended to provide too
both the capacity and the political will to review and much high-cost curative care and too few preventive
revise health policies continuously. services, which caused costs to explode. The govern-
Starting in the late 1970s, Chile (then under a mili- ment then moved to cap allocations to local authorities,
tary government) decentralized the government-run using as a basis historical budget shares that favored
health system and created private health insurance in- the wealthier municipalities.
stitutions. Responsibility for operating primary care The ISAPREs, by targeting the richest segments of
services was devolved to the country's 325 munici- Chilean society, impoverished the rest of the social in-
palities. The Ministry of Health transferred its primary surance system. Each salaried beneficiary who chose to
care budget and about half of its personnel to the mu- shift to an ISAPRE cost the public system 2.5 times the
nicipalities, which could also draw for financing on lo- contribution of an average salaried worker. Because the
cal tax revenues and on resources from the central gov- ISAPREs are permitted to rate individual health risks,
ernment's Municipal Common Fund. More important, they have "skimmed" the population for good risks,
the government encouraged the establishment of pri- leaving the public sector to care for the sick and the
vately owned and operated health insurance funds, elderly.
known as ISAPREs. The roughly 70 percent of the The democratically elected government that came to
population covered by social security schemes had the power in 1989 has chosen to maintain the broad thrust
option of using their payroll deduction to buy a pre- of the health reforms while seeking ways to overcome
paid private health plan. The competing plans were their adverse effects. Municipal elections have been
regulated by a new oversight unit (superintendencia) in held to ensure that popularly chosen and accountable
the Ministry of Health. By 1990 about 2.5 million peo- officials look after primary health services. Training
ple, or 18 percent of the population, were covered by programs have been organized for municipal health
thirty-five ISAPREs. officers. Responsibility for hospitals is being decentral-
Both decentralization and the creation of the private ized to twenty-seven health service areas that will enter
insurers brought about some improvements in the into management contracts with the Ministry of
health system. The municipalities expanded primary Health. Finally, under a new proposal, central funds
care services. The ISAPREs introduced more competi- would be allocated to the municipalities on a capitation
tion and consumer choice into the financing and deliv- basis, with a further adjustment to favor the poorest
ery of services and spurred growth in the numbers of localities.
private doctors and hospitals. The government is also beginning to look at ways to
But the reforms also created new problems. In the reduce inequities in the ISAPRE health financing sys-
early years of the reforms, when local officials were tem. The superintendencia that regulates ISAPRE is be-
appointed by the military regime, municipal health ser- ing strengthened. It is considering requiring the pri-
vices were not responsive to the local population. vate plans to use community risk-rating and to accept
Transfers of Ministry of Health staff to the munici- all applicants able to pay the community-rated pre-
palities created job insecurity and caused a decline in miums; making it mandatory for all ISAPREs to offer a
staff morale. Many municipalities lacked the capacity similar basic medical plan in order to promote direct
to plan and manage primary health services. The mu- competition among suppliers (as in the managed care
nicipalities tended to overrefer patients to hospitals, systems being developed in the United States); and
which were still funded by the ministry. The ministry eliminating the deduction for employer contributions.

162


--- Page 177 ---
fee-for-service medicine in the private sector. Since covering two to four provinces, but the provinces
real government spending for health has fallen are reluctant to finance such regions. Moreover,
dramatically during the recent transition toward a there are political pressures for further decentral-
market economy, the government health system is ization to the level of the district governments,
also experiencing serious shortages of drugs and where there is now very little capacity for manag-
equipment. ing health systems.
Largely because they know all too well the prob- At the same time that they decentralize, govern-
lems of repressive central government control, ments will have to reduce the size of publicly
policymakers, medical professionals, and con- owned health services, which have far too many
sumers in the formerly socialist countries are look- hospitals, hospital beds, and physicians. In this
ing to systems of public and private insurance in way, governments can free resources for vital pub-
industrial countries as possible models for reform. lic health services, including immunization, work-
Some countriesfor example, the Czech Republic, place and food safety, environmental regulation,
Hungary, and Polandhave much in common measures such as education and higher taxes to
with upper-middle-income countries such as Ar- discourage consumption of alcohol and tobacco,
gentina, Costa Rica, and Korea. They may be also and quality control of privately delivered clinical
able to adapt some features of the systems of the care. The clinical and managerial skills of the re-
Nordic countries and the United Kingdom, which maining government health personnel need to be
are financed from general revenues, or of the uni- substantially upgraded and reoriented from the
versal social insurance approaches of Germany previous system of centralized bureaucratic con-
and Japan. Others in this groupincluding the trol toward the emerging system of semi-
relatively poor Central Asian republicsface many autonomous health facilities.
of the same issues currently confronting lower-
middle-income and even low-income countries, NEw MODES OF FINANCING. The examples of
such as Pakistan and Yemen. other countries could help the formerly socialist
Despite this diversity, the governments of all the countries establish insurance systems that pre-
formerly socialist countries need to consider health serve the main virtue of their old systemwide-
sector reforms in at least three main areas: improv- spread coverage of the population. It could also
ing the efficiency of government health facilities help them to recognize the circumstances under
and services, partly by reducing the size of the which general government revenues can play a
public system; finding new ways to finance health positive role, as the dominant source of funding
care; and encouraging private supply of health (the pattern in the United Kingdom) or as a com-
services while strengthening public regulatory plement to insurance (as in Japan). Experience
capacity. elsewhere offers important lessons on how to cre-
ate financing systems that are sustainable and that
EFFICIENCY OF GOVERNMENT SERVICES. De- contain costs by, for example, discouraging fee-
centralization of government health services is po- for-service compensation. The formerly socialist
tentially the most important force for improving countries will also want to avoid the large and in-
efficiency and responding to local health condi- equitable government subsidies commonly pro-
tions and demands. It will be successful only when vided to private insurance for the wealthy or to
local government health agencies and hospitals social insurance for the middle class.
have a sound financial base, solid administrative Most formerly socialist countries are already on
capacity, and incentives for improving efficiency the road to reform. The Czech and Slovak repub-
and when they are accountable to patients and lo- lics and Hungary are experimenting with forms of
cal citizens. Extreme and hasty decentralization social insurance. Because the Czech system in-
can create inefficiencies. In Poland, for example, cluded a very comprehensive package of health
the government has decentralized health careto benefits and paid private doctors on a fee-for-ser-
the level of the country's forty-nine provinces. The vice basis, it encountered serious financial diff i-
average provincial population of less than a mil- culties after just a few months of operation. Under
lion is proving too small to make efficient use of the recently revised Hungarian health-financing
the tertiary care hospitals being built in each pro- system, public sector doctors will be salaried em-
vince, and the available medical personnel are be- ployees of the central and local governments, and
ing spread too thin. For these reasons, the govern- private general practitioners will be paid on a cap-
ment is now experimenting with health regions itation basis. Russia and Ukraine are also prepar-

163


--- Page 178 ---
Box 7.3 Reform of the Russian health system

Before the political upheavals of 1990-91 that led to the They will sign contracts for care with public and private
breakup of the Soviet Union, the 3 to 4 percent of GNP providers. Individuals can then voluntarily purchase
that the Russian republic spent on health care for its supplementary private insurance to cover additional
nearly 150 million inhabitants was financed from gen- health services.
eral government revenues and delivered through a The health insurance legislation has been in effect
vast network of public facilities, programs, and em- since late 1991, but progress in implementing it has
ployees. This highly centralized and bureaucratic sys- been slow. Some important issues in the design of the
tem led to excessive numbers of doctors and hospitals. system still need to be resolved. These include the role
It gave few incentives for efficiency or for providing and extent of competition among public and private
quality care, and it neglected the preventive measures insurers; whether risks are to be rated on an individual
needed to combat the country's most serious environ- basis or across larger pools of individuals; and how the
mental and behavioral problems: industrial pollution, insurance funds will pay providerson a fee-for-ser-
alcohol and tobacco dependency, and poor nutrition. vice basis, through capitation, or by some other
Consequently, the health status of Russians stagnated method or combination of methods.
during the 1970s and 1980s. In 1990 life expectancy for The practical obstacles to the implementation of the
Russian men was just sixty-four years, a full ten years new system are formidable, partly because of the un-
less than in Western Europe, and the infant mortality settled administrative and economic environment. The
rate, at twenty-two per 1,000 live births, was twice the regional governments lack the capacity to manage and
Western European average. regulate the health system they are inheriting. The
The new Russian government has pursued several economy and the government budget are under severe
fundamental reforms of the old Soviet health system. strain. Real wages have fallen dramatically in the past
Health financing and management are being decentral- few years. The costs of drugs and equipment have in-
ized to eighty-eight regions. Much medical practice is creased faster than inflation, leading to serious short-
being privatized, and a recent health insurance law ages. Payroll taxes to cover employee benefits already
provides for the introduction and regulation of new absorb 38 percent of wages, making it difficult to fi-
forms of insurance. Under the law and its proposed nance an affordable package of health services through
amendments, each region is to have a social insurance the social insurance system. To help overcome these
fund, and a national fund will equalize resources problems, a number of international agencies, includ-
across regions. These insurance funds will receive a ing the World Bank, are working closely with Russian
combination of compulsory payroll deductions and health officials on designing and carrying out health
budget transfers from general government revenues. policy reforms.

ing to implement mixed systems of social insur- sion to issue lifetime licenses to doctors without
ance and general revenue financing. Box 7.3 establishing strict standards of practice or recer-
describes the current efforts in Russia. tification requirements. Since government regula-
tory capacity is likely to be weak in the next few
COMPETITIVE PROVISION AND PUBLIC REGULATION. years, health system reforms should be designed
Although private medical practice is now permit- in ways that minimize the need for direct govern-
ted in most of the formerly socialist countries, the ment regulation. Encouraging self-regulation
legal and regulatory environment for private doc- through associations of private medical schools,
tors, hospitals, and insurance institutions is often doctors, and hospitals would be one such ap-
either nonexistent or hostile. With large numbers proach. In the long run, better regulation will re-
of private doctors establishing practices and pri- quire both training of government inspectors and
vate hospitals and clinics being created, regulation other regulatory personnel and development of
of providers will be critical for reducing the inci- government institutions such as medical licensing
dence of medical malpractice and financial fraud: boards and national and local medical ethics
It is also essential that regulation encourage the committees.
development of efficient institutions, such as
health maintenance organizations, for financing Directions and prospects for reform
and providing clinical care for the bulk of the
population. Already there are signs of poorly con- The world's diversity of health care systems is
ceived regulations, such as Romania's recent deci- matched by the diversity of reform movements.

164


--- Page 179 ---
But several common themes are beginning to Nigeria, and South Africa and in Eastern Europe.
emerge. First, governments are increasingly recog- A free press is important, as are consumer advo-
nizing the centrality of their own role in public cacy groups, for conveying a diversity of views on
healthfor example, in achieving the enormous health reform and for stimulating debate.
global gains in immunization coverage. Second, In many countries, maintaining the support of
governments are exploring ways to introduce the middle class and of urban groups for health
more competition and foster a diversity of public policy reformsincluding the reallocation of pub-
and private institutions in the delivery of clinical lic spending from tertiary care to basic public
services. Third, governments are examining new health and clinical care for the poorwill require a
approaches to finance and insurance, including se- gradual shift in resources rather than wholesale
lective user fees in the public sector, systems that changes in just one or two years. For this reason,
discourage third-party reimbursement, systems universal government financing (or government-
that mix finance from compulsory social insurance mandated financing) for a nationally defined es-
and from general tax revenues, and systems that sential package of services will often be more suc-
set fixed budgets for each patient or each case. cessful than a highly targeted approach that may
Everywhere, health sector reform is a contin- undermine the political base for reform. Similarly,
uous and complex struggle. Neither governments continued government ownership of some hospi-
nor free markets can by themselves allocate re- tals that offer high-quality tertiary care, with a
sources for health efficiently. As policymakers try phased reduction in public subsidies to the
to reach compromises, they must deal with power- wealthy for this care, may be more feasible politi-
ful interest groups (private doctors, drug com- cally than rapid divestiture to the private sector.
panies, medical equipment manufacturers, and External financial assistance can help countries
insurers) and strong political constituencies, in- handle these politically difficult tradeoffs and can
cluding urban dwellers and industrial workers. ease the process of policy change.
Strategies for overcoming these obstacles to
health sector reform will vary from country to International assistance for health
country, but some common approaches are dis-
cernible. Political leadership, beginning with the After growing rapidly in the 1970s, aid for health
head of state, is an indispensable element in re- stagnated during the 1980s. As a share of official
form programs almost everywhere. The 1990 development assistance, aid for health declined
World Summit for Children proved an effective from an average of 7 percent for the period 198 1-85
means for engaging the attention and commitment to 6 percent during 1986-90. Total aid flows to the
of heads of state (see Box 2 in the Overview). Se- health sector in 1990 were $4.8 billionalmost $4
nior officials of ministries of health can be strongly billion in official development assistance and $0.8
influenced by the prevailing views of the interna- billion from NGOs and foundations (Figure 7.1).
tional health community, particularly those of This amounts to about one dollar per person in
WHO and other major donors, and by participa- developing countries. (The figure for official devel-
tion in international meetings and seminars on opment assistance is based on reports from donor
health policy and management. governments. Only $3.3 billion of the $4 billion can
Professional associations may be able to bring be accounted for as receipts by individual coun-
about some reorientation of health workers, espe- tries; this is the amount that appears in the total
cially physicians. Appeals to the sense of social health expenditure estimated in Chapter 3 and in
responsibility of these associations have helped Appendix table A.9.) Bilateral agencies accounted
advance agendas for preventive health in the for the largest share (40 percent), followed by
United States and elsewhere. Such groups, how- United Nations agencies (33 percent), NGOs (17
ever, are often the sources of the strongest resis- percent), development banks (8 percent), and
tance to change. Reshaping the training curricula foundations (2 percent).
of medical and nursing schools to include a greater The trend is for donors to provide aid for health
emphasis on public health and general practice is through multilateral channels. The share of multi-
likely to be a more effective way to enlist the sup- lateral assistance has grown from 25 percent in
port of physicians and nurses. 1980 to 40 percent in 1990 and is likely to exceed 50
Public opinion can be a powerful force for health percent by 1995. As a result of the quadrupling of
reform, not only in industrial countries but also in World Bank lending for health over the past six
developing countries such as Brazil, Chile, years, disbursements of Bank funds are expected

165


--- Page 180 ---
External assistance to developing countries for health comes from many sources, public and private.

Figure 7.1 Disbursements of external assistance for the health sector, 1990
(millions of dollars)
N/ 1,913
3,925 Bilateral
I / agencies
Public 242
4,794 agencies I 671/ 4,794
382
Development
> banks"

382 /N

Donor 869 1,601 Developing
countries United COO 0 tries
58(1
Private Nations
agencies agencies

830

Nongovernmentalorganizations

(17 N

68 -J K
Foundations

a. Includes $84 million in nonconcessional loans.
Source: Michaud and Murray, background paper.

to grow from about $350 million in 1992 to about $1 Programme (UNDP), in its annual Human Develop-
billion in 1995, making the World Bank the largest ment Report, has argued for more donor spending
single source of external funding for health. Since on health, and in its recent World Development Re-
the portion of aid going to middle-income coun- ports the World Bank has made similar recommen-
tries from the World Bank and other development dations. World Development Report 1990 proposed a
banks is nonconcessional lending, some of the 3 percent annual increase in aid during the 1990s,
projected increase in lending for health will in- to be targeted at poverty-reducing activities, in-
volve a hardening of terms. It would be desirable cluding basic health care. The donor community
for bilateral grant-funding agencies and conces- needs to review these goals and targets in light of
sional arms of the development banks (such as the the actual trends in aid flows for health.
World Bank's International Development Associa- The share of aid going to health should be re-
tion) to increase their assistance to health as well. stored immediately to its earlier level of 7 percent
The amount of health aid has stagnated, and its of total official development assistance and should
share in total development assistance has de- rise substantially over the next five years. Such an
clined, even as donors continue to express concern increase would have a significant impact on the
about health. Over the past ten years the United health status of the poor, particularly if it is di-
Nations and other international agencies have rected toward the transitional costs of reallocating
called for increased investments in the develop- government spending to public health measures
ment of human resources, including health, both and essential clinical care and to seriously under-
by developing countries themselves and by the do- funded disease control efforts such as those for
nor community. The United Nations Development tuberculosis and AIDS. A rise in donor assistance
166


--- Page 181 ---
of $2 billion, for example, could finance a quarter large share of health expenditure. In Africa aid
of the estimated additional costs of a basic package makes up an average 10 percent of national health
in low-income countries and of strengthened ef- spending (Table 7.2), or 20 percent if South Africa
forts to prevent AIDS. Such an increase, which is excluded. Aid covers more than half of all health
would boost from 6 to 9 percent the share of total expenditures in countries such as Burkina Faso,
official aid going to health, would be feasible if Chad, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, and Tan-
other donors matched the rise in World Bank dis- zania. In these countries donors finance an impor-
bursements for health that is expected to occur in tant share of recurrent costs, as well as investment
coming years. It would also be consistent with the items. In Mozambique, for example, aid accounted
proposal in the UNDP's Human Development Report for more than half of recurrent spending in 1991
1993 (also endorsed by UNICEF) that 20 percent of and for 90 percent of capital expenditures for
aid be spent on health, education, water and sani- health. Even when aid amounts to 2 percent or less
tation, and environmental protection for the of total health spending, as in the other develop-
world's poor. ing regions, improvements in its use would still be
There are a number of ways, in addition to the an important catalyst for reform.
traditional annual and multiyear programming of General lessons on improving aid effectiveness
aid by individual donors, for the international apply equally to the health sector (Box 7.4). Do-
community to mobilize more financial resources nors need to set their priorities carefully and allo-
for health. Coordinated sectorwide pledging at cate their resources in accordance with these prior-
consultative group meetings and donor round- ities. The productivity of aid would increase
tables has been used successfully in countries such substantially if donors were to direct more of their
as Tanzania and Zambia. Another approach is pro- assistance to public health measures and essential
gram-specific pledging, as illustrated by the clinical services, especially in low-income coun-
dozens of national AIDS-control donor meetings tries. They might also usefully focus on capacity
chaired by WHO in recent years. The role of debt- building, research, and reform of health policy.
for-development swaps as a means of generating Countries that show a willingness to improve ac-
extra resources for both government and NGO- cess to health services for the poor and to under-
provided health services should be assessed in this take reforms of the health system should be strong
context. Ecuador, Sudan, and Zimbabwe have al- candidates for aid.
ready carried out swaps, and Nigeria is exploring a The World Bank increasingly stresses policy re-
major swap of its debt currently held by donors in form in its lending for health, which has grown
return for increased public spending for essential nearly fourfold in recent years (Box 7.5). For some
health services. donors, adjustment of priorities would mean
Improving the effectiveness of aid for health spending less on hospitals, sophisticated medical
equipment, and training for medical specialists
It is crucial that the donor community and devel- During 1988-90 Japan spent more than 33 percent
oping countries focus on ways to improve the ef- of its bilateral assistance for health on construction
fectiveness of existing and future assistance to the of hospitals, France spent 25 percent, and Ger-
health sector, particularly in the low-income coun- many and Italy spent nearly 15 percent each.
tries where donor assistance already accounts for a Within the domain of public health and essential
clinical care, several areas of intervention deserve
greater attention from donors, including tuber-
Table 7.2 Official development assistance culosis control, the EPI Plus program, micro-
for health by demographic region, 1990 nutrient supplementation, AIDS prevention and
Health aid control, and programs to reduce tobacco consump-
Health aid as a tion. These problems impose a large burden of ill-
received Health aid percentage ness, in some cases because rapid growth of the
(millions per capita of health
Region of dollars) (dollars) expend?turethreat has gone unrecognized. Their control offers
Sub-Saharan Africa 1,251 2.45 10.4large externalities or economies of scale. Often, so-
Other Asia and islands 594 0.87 1.4lutions will require a global effort.
Latin America and the The efficiency of aid for health can be greatly
Caribbean 591 1.33 1.3enhanced through better coordination of donor
Middle Eastern crescent 453 1.31 1.3projects and policies. Fragmentation of external
India 286 0.34 1.6
China 77 0.07 0.6support in the health sector is a long-standing
Source: Michaud and Murray, background paper. problem in many countries and imposes a heavy
167


--- Page 182 ---
rBox 7.4 Health assistance and the effectiveness of aid

Recent evaluations of the effectiveness of aid, includ- ronment. When it comes to coordination, both sides
ing a classic 1986 study commissioned by the world have been at fault. Donors have pursued their OWfl
donor community, point toward the same conclusion: objectives without attempting to ensure that their aid
most aid has been successful, but a considerable share, complements that of others. And all too often, aid re-
perhaps a third or more, has been much less so, and a cipients have played one donor off against another,
small percentage has failed completely or has even while ministers and ministries have focused on their
been harmful. These broad-brush averages hide signifi- own concerns rather than looking to the national good.
cant regional differences: in Asia and Latin America Aid for health has generally had a good technical
performance has been better; in Sub-Saharan Africa it record. It has fit in well with development priorities,
has been worse. Aid has been least effective in the especially in recent years, as the concentration on hos-
poorest countries, where success is most needed. pitals and high-technology curative medicine has been
The reasons for inferior performance lie with both replaced by an emphasis on primary and preventive
donors and recipients. Poor countries and those experi- care. There have also been major successes_mainly
encing political conflict and instability constitute a diffi- highly focused initiatives such as the program for the
cult environment for aid, as they have little administra- eradication of smallpox, the drive against child mortal-
tive capacity or infrastructure. But these difficulties ity, and the effort to control river blindness in Africa.
have in many cases been compounded by unfortunate What is still lacking is the ability of the aid system to
policies. Aid projects have been poorly designed, both help set in place and sustain locally appropriate public
technically and because of inadequate understanding health programs and essential clinical services.
of the human, social, institutional, and political envi-

burden on already overextended government offi- strengthening the public institutions that finance
cials. In the extreme, fragmentation can lead to and deliver health services, both through broad
conflicting policies being put into effect. Recently civil service reform and through changes within
in one West African country, for example, three the health sector. Donors can play an important
different cost recovery policies, each sponsored by role in these areas by supporting decentralization
a different donor agency, were being applied in and other organizational reforms and by assisting
separate regions of the country. The dangers of the groups that formulate national health policies.
fragmentation are especially great in poor coun- Additional support is required for initiatives such
tries where different donors choose to focus their as the foundation-backed International Health Pol-
health sector activities on different provinces or icy Program and for bilateral projects to train
districts and either lose sight of or undermine the health planners and managers, economists, and
formulation of national policies. sociologists.
Much can be done to improve donor coordina- International programs for research and development in
tion, globally and regionally, but especially at the health
country level. Donors can agree with countries on
overall national health and assistance strategies. Investments in health research and development
This is especially effective when the government have yielded high returns in better health. For ex-
takes the lead in planning and in coordinating the ample, the programs for tropical disease research
donors, as has happened recently in Zimbabwe. and human reproduction funded by donors and
Another approach is for donors to form large con- executed by WHO have produced a number of
sortia to fund national programs, as in the case of new or improved drugs and diagnostic tests and
maternal and child health and family planning in have strengthened research capacity in developing
Bangladesh. (The experiences of these two coun- countries. Yet according to the 1990 report of the
tries are reviewed in Box 7.6.) At a minimum, do- Commission on Health Research for Develop-
nors should create informal local groups that meet ment, only 5 percent of global expenditures on
periodically to review progress and problems in health research are directed at the health problems
the health sector, as in Mozambique and Senegal. unique to developing countries, and less than 10
The efficiency with which aid for health is spent percent of donor assistance for health is devoted to
depends critically on building local capacity to research, both biomedical and in the social
plan and manage health systems. This requires sciences.

168


--- Page 183 ---
The commission identified several serious defi- compounded by donors' limited capacity to stay
ciencies in the international health research and abreast of the latest research proposals and to
development system. The expertise of the global assess the relative priorities for funding this
pharmaceutical industry is not being adequately research.
applied to the development of drugs and vaccines To help stabilize funding, to improve the setting
that could reduce the toll of early childhood dis- of priorities, and to boost efficiency, developing
eases. Technology assessment is weak, as is the countries, donors, and scientists should consider
health policy research needed to determine more the development of a global mechanism for better
equitable and efficient ways to finance and deliver coordination of international health research. A
health services. Most important, the commission number of institutional arrangements are possible,
noted, local research capacity in developing coun- including well-defined networks of research cen-
tries is woefully inadequate. A number of promis- ters, informal consultative bodies, and large global
ing research efforts, including the Children's Vac- funds that pool donor assistance. Examples of
cine Initiative and programs to deal with acute these institutional arrangements in other sectors,
respiratory infections, tuberculosis, micronutrient such as the Consultative Group for International
deficiencies and worm infections, suffer from Agricultural Research and the Global Environment
weak and uncertain donor funding. In general, the Facility, may provide models for improving the co-
problems of constrained funding for research are ordination of international health research.

Box 7.5 World Bank support for reform of the health sector
World Bank support for the health sector has grown hensive reforms, including granting greater manage-
dramatically over the past six years. The number of ment autonomy to health facilities and decentralizing
new World Bank-financed health, population, and nu- resources to the regional level. Doctors, nurses, and
trition projects approved each year increased from an other health personnel are being encouraged to work
average of eight during fiscal 1987-89 to twenty-one in better-equipped health centers and other basic facili-
during fiscal 1990-92, and the value of credits and ties. And health-financing mechanisms are being re-
loans committed each year rose from $317 million to vised, with updated fee schedules, new exemption
$1,151 million over the same period. As of June 1992, procedures for the poor, and changes to the health
eighty-one Bank-financed health projects were being benefits covered by existing insurance schemes. The
implemented. As a share of new World Bank lending, Hospital Restructuring Project, supported by the
projects for health, population, and nutrition grew World Bank, is assisting the improvement of manage-
from less than 1 percent in 1987 to nearly 7 percent in ment systems and the quality of health services in the
1991. largest government hospitals, which were recently
Whereas most of these projects continue the Bank's granted autonomous legal status. The project dovetails
traditional support for basic health servicesincluding with the concurrent World Bank-financed Population
district health infrastructure and personnel, maternal and Family Health Project, designed to improve the
and child health, and control of infectious diseases quality and efficiency of public health services and es-
World Bank lending for health is increasingly focusing sential clinical care, especially for mothers and chil-
on broad policy reforms in the health sector. For exam- dren. It is expected that better basic services at the
ple, in connection with a recent Bank project, the gov- health center level will reduce the demand for hospital
ernment of Maurifania has developed a financing plan care, thus slowing the expansion of the country's
to improve the availability of basic health services for hospitals.
its widely dispersed population. The share of the gen- The Rumania Health Rehabilitation Project supports
eral recurrent budget going to the Ministry of Public government efforts to diversify sources of health fi-
Health will increase from 5.5 percent in 1992 to 7.5 nancing and thus to reduce dependence on the public
percent in 1996. The project is introducing commurtity- budget, which is under pressure because of weak and
based cost recovery in three of the country's thirteen unstable macroeconomic conditions and rising health
regions as a way of improving the efficiency and qual- care costs. The government is pilot testing decentral-
ity of services. Revenues are being raised mainly ization of health sector policymaking, planning, man-
through the sale of drugs, organized and managed by agement, and evaluation in three subregions. It is also
local health communities. discussing how to create a legal and regulatory envi-
In Tunisia the government is carrying out compre- ronment to support reform of health financing.

169


--- Page 184 ---
Box 7.6 Donor coordination in the health sector in Zimbabwe and Bangladesh

The Zimbabwe Second Family Health Project (1992-96) review and the administrative burden on the
is the culmination of a long period of interaction be- government.
tween the government of Zimbabwe, the World Bank, In Bangladesh the World Bank and ten bilateral agen-
and other multilateral and bilateral donors. The $120 cies together are contributing $440 million to the Fourth
million project, which supports the government's five- Population and Health Project, and the government is
year investment program for population, health, and providing $165 million, for a total of $605 million over
nutrition, is designed to benefit directly low-income the five-year project period. The United Nations Popu-
households, especially women and children. Zim- lation Fund, WHO, and UNICEF are supplying project
babwe has entered a period of economic adjustment management, procurement, and technical assistance.
that will necessitate spending Cuts. The project will All the partners in the project belong to the Bangladesh
help protect poor and vulnerable households from Population and Health Consortium, which has
some adverse effects of adjustment by mobilizing addi- emerged as an important collective force in the health
tional resources for human resource development and sector. The Asian Development Bank has joined the
by improving the equity and efficiency of spending. consortium with a view to ensuring consistency be-
Zimbabwean participation was emphasized from the tween the project and its own $60 million investment in
project's beginning. The project preparation committee population and health in Bangladesh.
included representatives from various central govern- During project formulation the government and the
ment departments, provincial governments, and the donors held several workshops in Dhaka and a special
Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council. The conference in Geneva. These workshops were instru-
committee set planning guidelines, including a prelimi- mental in forging a consensus on population and
nary outline of project components, costs, and financ- health strategies. The consortium approach enables the
ing. Using these guidelines, proposals were prepared government and the donor community to agree on an
locally and were then reviewed by the committee and overall strategy and to work out a consistent financing
by interested donors. plan for the sector. The consortium operates on the
Virtually all the major donors to the health sector in basis of strict equality of all the partners, independent
Zimbabwe helped with planning the project by assign- of the size of their financial contributions.
ing agency officials and technical specialists to the do- In addition to strengthening Bangladesh's popula-
nor team that advised the government on design is- tion program and its delivery system for family plan-
sues. In the end, the project received financing from ning services, the consortium is attempting to reorient
Denmark, the European Community, Norway, the health care system toward public health, including
Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the World Bank. maternal health. It is also trying to make basic services
Donors monitor project implementation jointly rather more easily accessible to the rural and urban poor.
than separately, reducing the time needed for donor

Meeting the challenges of health policy reform Policymakers in developing countries and off i-
If policymakers are to accelerate the substantial cials of the international donor community face a
health gains of recent decades, especially for the number of difficult challenges in pursuing this
poor in developing countries, the agenda for re- agenda. The changing demographic profile of the
form is clear. It includes increasing overall rates of developing world, including the aging of the
economic growth and expanding basic schooling, population, is creating new patterns of disease.
particularly for girls; reallocating government Emerging microbial threats, such as AIDS and
drug-resistant strains of tuberculosis and malaria,
spending for health from tertiary care and special- call for changes in personal behavior, new drugs,
ist training to public health measures and essential and new ways of delivering services effectively.
clinical services; encouraging more diversity and In virtually every country interest groups will
competition in the provision of clinical care and resist health policy reforms of the kind suggested
the development of cost-containing approaches to in this Report. Health workers will object to
insurance; increasing the efficiency of government changes that threaten their job security, income
health services; and fostering greater involvement levels, and degree of professional autonomy. Drug
of communities and households in promoting companies, medical equipment manufacturers,
healthier behavior on their own part and in man- and other suppliers will try to block policies that
aging their local health services. they see as having an adverse effect on their mar-

170


--- Page 185 ---
kets, revenues, and profits. Political and economic about reallocating resources, improving access,
elites and organized labor groups will seek to pre- and increasing efficiency. To do this, higher and
serve existing public subsidies for insurance and sustained rates of macroeconomic growth are re-
health services from which they benefit and to quired. In many cases countries will also need to
maintain their privileged access to clinical care. enact fundamental political reforms designed to
Beyond this, policymakers will have to wrestle increase participation and to improve the account-
with the reality that in the area of health there is no ability of governments for their health spending,
simple paradigm for policy choice. Free markets service delivery, and regulatory performance.
for public health activities and clinical care often The donor community has a major responsibility
fail, and when governments intervene in financing to back up with concrete actions its verbal commit-
and delivery, as they frequently do, they can fail ment to poverty reduction and to investment in
just as badly. Effective government regulation of health and human resources. In particular, donors
private suppliers of health services and inputs, should do more to support the formulation of im-
combined with public financing of cost-effective proved health policies and more effective health
packages of public health and essential clinical ser- sector reform programs in developing countries.
vices, is needed to deal with these failures. But this As suggested in this Report, they can do this by
in turn requires strong private and public institu- financing some of the transitional costs of real-
tionsand institutional capacity is seriously lack- locating government budgets to public health mea-
ing in many developing countries. sures and essential clinical care, by building local
Despite these obstacles, there have been a num- planning, management, and research capacity,
ber of successes in specific intervention programs and by providing sound assessments of the world-
such as polio eradication and river blindness con- wide experience with the cost-effectiveness of in-
trol and a smaller but still important number of terventions and with reform of systems.
successes in broader health sector reform in such If developing country governments and donors
countries as Chile, Tunisia, and Zimbabwe, as well accept the challenges and embrace the key health
as in many OECD countries. These successes now policy reforms outlined above, improvements in
need to be multiplied, especially in the area of sec- human welfare in the coming years will be enor-
tor reform, if countries are to address the acute mous. A large share of the current burden of dis-
weaknesses in existing institutional structures and easeperhaps as much as one-quarterwill be
to lay the foundation for major improvements in prevented. And people around the world, espe-
future living standards. cially the more than 1 billion people now living in
Developing country governments need to do poverty, will live longer, healthier, and more pro-
more to translate into practice today's rhetoric ductive lives.

171


--- Page 186 ---
Acknowledgments

This Report benefited greatly from ideas, technical Adolfo MartInez-Palomo, David N. Nabarro, Gen
inputs, and critical review from a broad range of indi- Ohi, Richard Peto, Kenneth I. Shine, Pravin Visaria,
viduals and organizations. Contributions to specific and Richard Zeckhauser
chapters are acknowledged in the Bibliographical Consultations
note. In addition, valuable input was provided
through four other mechanisms: a World Health Or- Ministerial Review of Health Transition Issues
ganization Steering Committee, an Advisory Com- June 22-26, 1992, Bellagio Study and Conference
mittee, a series of consultations on specific subjects, Center, Villa Serbelloni, Bellagio, Italy. Partial finan-
and a series of seminars, mostly held at the World cial support for the consultation was provided by the
Bank. Those from outside the World Bank who con- Rockefeller Foundation.
tributed to the Report through these mechanisms are
listed below. Participants: Alfredo R. A. Bengzon, Demissie Habte
(provided written comments), Richard C. A. Fea-
World Health Organization Steering Committee chem, Julio Frenk, Mamdouh Cabr, Scott Halstead,
Jean-Paul Jardel, Jorge Jiménez de la Jara, Jeffrey R.
This committee provided the focal point for the major Koplan, Marthini K. Budi Salyo, Adolfo MartInez-
contributions from WHO to the World Development Re- Palomo, Piotr Mierzewski, Rajiv L. Misra, W. Henry
port, for WHO's participation in consultations, and Mosley, Samuel Ofosu-Amaah, Raphael Owor,
for its critical review of various drafts. Olikoye Ransome-Kuti, and Leonardo Santos Simão
Chair: Jean-Paul Jardel Interventions for Nervous System Disorders
Members: Andrew L. Creese, Michel Jancloes, Yuji July 6-7, 1992, Pan American Health Organization,
Kawaguchi, R. Srinivasan, and Muthu Subramanian Washington, D.C.
Advisory Committee Chair: Benedetto Saraceno
Participants: Antonio Campino, Vijay Chandra, Brian
The Advisory Committee met on October 7-9, 1992, Cooper, Bulent Coskun, Marcelo E. Cruz, Mary Jane
at the World Bank in Washington, D.C.; in addition, England, John T. Farrar, Jefferson Fernandes, R. Juan
committee members later provided critical review of Ramon de la Fuente, Walter Gulbinat, Itzhak Levav,
an early draft of the Report. Thomas McGuire, Kay Redfield Jamison, Norman
Chair: Richard C. A. Feachem Sartorius, Carole Siegel, Donald H. Silverberg, T.
Takayanagi, and Richard Jed Wyatt
Members: Jane C. Baltazar, José Barzellato, Mayra International Aid Flows to the Health Sector
Buvini, Lincoln C. Chen, Antoine Degrémont, August 27, 1992, Harvard Center for Population and
Nicholas Eberstadt, John Evans, Mahbub ul Haq, Pe- Development Studies, Cambridge, Massachusetts
ter Heller, Abraham Horwitz, Jean-Paul Jardel, Rich-
ard Jolly, Somkid Kaewsonthi, Pangu Kasa-Asila, Chair: David Bell

172


--- Page 187 ---
Participants: Lincoln C. Chen, Nick Drager, Ramesh Participants: Antoine Degremont, Maria Elena Ducci,
Govindaraj, Eva Jespersen, Catherine Michaud, Lilia Durán Gonzales, Paul Garner, Greg Goldstein,
Christopher J. L. Murray, and David Parker Emile Jeannée, Matthias Kerker, Peter Kilima,
Investing in Health Research Nicolaus Lorenz, Ngudup Paijor, Voahangy
Ramahatafandry, Allessandro Rossi-Espagnet, John
September 16, 1992, World Health Organization, Ge- Seager, Gustavo A. Torres, and Charles Yesudian
neva, Switzerland. Financial support was provided Human Resources for Health
by the WHO/UNDP/World Bank Special Programme
for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases. November 18-19, 1992, McMaster University, Ham-
Chair: Carlos Morel ilton, Ontario, Canada. Financial support was pro-
vided by the Canadian International Development
Participants: Eusebe Alihouno, Barry R. Bloom, David Agency.
J. Bradley, Barbro Carlsson, Gelia T. Castillo, Jac- Co-chairs: Julio Frenk and Victor Neufeld
queline Cattani, Anthony Cerami, Joseph A. Cook,
Henry Danielsson, Ronald W. Davis, Peter de Raadt, Participants: Orvill Adams, Barbara Carpio, Gilles
David Evans, Esmat Ezzat, Tore Godal, Melba Dussauld, John Evans, Alfonso MejIa, Hiroshi Na-
Gomes, E. Robert Greenberg, Win E. Gutteridge, katani, Kenneth Ojo, Una Reid, Charas Suwanwela,
Ralph H. Henderson, H. Robert Horvitz, Nathan K. and Peter Tugwell
Kere, Veronique Lawson, David N. Nabarro, Richard Health of the Elderly
Peto, Vulimiri Ramalingaswami, Peter Reeve, Hans November 23-24, 1992, Voksenasen, Norway. The
Remme, Lateef Akinola Salako, Ebrahim M. Samba, consultation was organized by the London School of
Vladimir Petrovich Sergiev, Carol Viassoff, Gabisiu Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Financial support
A. Williams, and Richard Wilson
Resource Flows to the Health Sector was provided by the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.
September 21, 1992, Harvard Center for Population Chair: Alex Kalache
and Development Studies, Cambridge, Massachusetts
Chair: William Hsiao Participants: Jordi Alonso, Nana Apt, Chris Beer, Felix
Bermejo, Ruth Bonita, Carol Brayne, Paul Chen,
Participants: Sudhir Anand, Peter Berman, Mirnal Yolande Coombes, Xianglin Du, Denise Eldemire, J.
Dutta Choudray, Gnanaraj Chellaraj, Lincoln C. Grimley Evans, Richard G. A. Feachem, Joe Hamp-
Chen, Michel Cichon, Andrew Creese, Ramesh son, Hana Hermanova, Benedicte Ingstad, Zhang
Govindaraj, Catherine Michaud, Christopher J. L. Kaiti, Roberto Kaplan, Luis Ramos, Melba Sanchez-
Murray, Sudhakar Rao, and George Scheiber Ayéndez, Bela Shah, Alberto Spagnoli, Knight Steel,
AIDS Policy and Renato Veras
November 5-6, 1992, Rockefeller Foundation, New District Health Services
York. Financial support was provided by the Rock- November 24-27, 1992, Institute of Health and Devel-
efeller Foundation and the Danish International De- opment, University of Dakar, Senegal. Financial sup-
velopment Agency. port was provided by Swiss Development Coopera-
Chair: Robert S. Lawrence tion and the Swiss Tropical Institute.
Participants: Roy Anderson, José Barzellato, Seth Co-chairs: Antoine Degremont and Ibrahima Wone
Berkley, Robert Black, Kevin De Cock, Richard G. A. Participants: Abdel Wahed Abassi, Waya Amoula,
Feachem, Penelope Hitchcock, King Holmes, Robert Anarfi Asamoa-Baah, Hubert Balique, Wolfgang
E. Howells, Jane Hughes, Peter Lamptey, Jonathan Bichmann, Malang Coly, Christian Darras, Pierre
Mann, Michael Merson, Daan Mulder, Peter Piot, Daveloose, Annemarie Demazy, Issakha Diallo, Isseu
Peer Sieben, Werasit Sittirai, Judith Wasserheit, Fer- Diop-Touré, Gina Etheridge, Georges Fournier, Lucy
nando Zacharias, and Richard Zeckhauser Gilson, Kathia Janovsky, Emile Jeannée, Pangu Kasa-
Asila, Matthias Kerker, Vincent Litt, Mandiaye
Urban Health Loum, Javier Martinez, Sigrun Mogedal, Maty Cissé
November 9-11, 1992, Basel, Switzerland. Financial Samb Ndao, Sène Touré Ngone, Cornelius Oepen,
support was provided by Swiss Development Coop- Bakary Sambou, Lamine Cissé Sarr, Malick Sarr,
eration and the Swiss Tropical Institute. Peter Schubarth, Michael Singleton, Thierno Maine
Aby Sy, Al Hadji Ali Tahirou, James Tumwine, Jean-
Co-chairs: Marcel Tanner and Trudy Harpham Pierre Unger, Adamou Yada, and Alfredo Zurita

173


--- Page 188 ---
Child Health Romer, Elizabeth Sherwin, Peter Smith, Jan Stjern-
November 30-December 2, 1992, Baltimore, Mary- swàrd, Rand Stoneburner, Muthu Subramanian,
land. The consultation was organized by the Johns Carole Torel, and Godfrey Walker
Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health. Finan- Health Finance
cial support was provided by the U.S. Agency for Dkember 14-16, 1992, Montebello, Quebec, Canada.
International Development. Financial support was provided by the Canadian In-
Chair: W. Henry Mosley ternational Development Agency.
Participants: Fernando Barros, Al Bartlett, Mark Bel- Chair: Stephen Simon
sey, Seth Berkley, Robert E. Black, David Boyd,
Donald A. P. Bundy, Carlos C. Campbell, Dennis Participants: Nicholas Barr, David Bell, Ricardo Bitran,
Carroll, Robert Clay, Felicity Cutts, Steve Esrey, Ake Blomqvist, Joseph Brunet-Jailly, Claude Cas-
Ronald Gray, Jerry Gibson, Bill Hausdorf, Jim Heiby, tonguay, Andrew L. Creese, Robert G. Evans,
Donald A. Henderson, Terrel Hill, Sandra L. Huff- Claude Forget, William Hsiao, Naoki Ikegami, Daniel
man, Jessica Jitta, Pamela Johnson, Charlotte Neu- M. Le Touzé, Mario Taguiwalo, Abdelmajid Tibouti,
man, Alok Perti, Phyllis Piotrow, Kenneth F. Schulz, Bokar Touré, and Katarzyna Tymowska
Jim Shepperd, William A. Smith, Sally Stansfield, Review of WDR Findings
Hope Sukin, Nebiat Tafari, Taha el Tahir Taha, Carl E.
Taylor, James L. Tulloch, Roxann Van Dusen, Caby C. January 26, 1993, Institute of Medicine, Washington,
Verzosa, Kenneth S. Warren, and Vivian Wong D.C.
Women and Health Chair: William H. Foege
December 7-9, 1992, Cumberland Lodge, Windsor, Participants: Abdelmonem A. Afifi (provided written
England. The consultation was organized by the Lon- comments), Carolyn Asbury, David E. Bell, Richard
don School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Finan- Bissell, Barry R. Bloom, Margaret Catley-Carlson, J.
cial support was provided by the U.K. Overseas De- Jarrett Clinton, Joseph A. Cook, Richard G. A. Fea-
velopment Administration. chem, Harvey V. Fineberg, Julio Frenk, Susan Gibb,
Organizers: Oona Campbell, Wendy Graham, and Polly F. Harrison, Donald A. Henderson, Jeffrey R.
Veronique Filippi Koplan, Adetokunbo 0. Lucas, Christopher J. L.
Murray, June E. Osborn, Adeline Wynante Patterson,
Participants: Uche Amazigo, Carmen Barroso, Loretta David P. Rall, Frederick C. Robbins, Timothy Ro-
Brabin, Mayra Buvinic, Mirai Chatterjee, Ann Coles, thermel, Kenneth I. Shine, Alfred Sommer, Roxann
Richard G. A. Feachem, Zuzana Feachem, Aleya El Van Dusen, Noel S. Weiss, Barbara L. Wolfe, and
Bindari Hammad, Sioban Harlow Gillian Holmes, James Wyngaarden
Susan Joekes, Marjorie Koblinsky, Joanne Leslie, Environment and Health
Claudia Garcia Moreno, Jacky Mundy, Cynthia
Myntti, David N. Nabarro, Phoebe Roome, Kasturi February 4-5, 1993, World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Sen, Jacqueline Sherris, Godfrey Walker, and Judith Financial support was provided by the Environmen-
Wasserheit tal Health Division, World Health Organization.
Global Burden of Disease Chair: Wilfried Kreisel
December 10-11, 1992, World Health Organization, Participants: Hendrik De Koning, Devra Lee Davis,
Geneva, Switzerland. The consultation was orga- Richard G. A. Feachem, Jacobo Finkelman, Gregory
nized by the World Health Organization. Financial Goldstein, Tord Kjellstrom, Anthony J. McMichael,
support was provided by the Edna McConnell Clark Horst Otterstetter, David P. Rall (provided written
Foundation. comments), and Kirk Smith
Chair: Jean-Paul Jardel Improving the Effectiveness of International Assistance
Participants: Carla Abou-Zahr, David Barmes, Monika to Health
Blössner, Luis Lopez Bravo, Anthony Burton, Yan- February 9-10, 1993, World Bank European Office,
kum Dadzie, Richard G. A. Feachem, Jacques Ferlay, Paris, France. Partial financial support was provided
Tore Godal, Ann Goerdt, Sandra Gove, Walter by the Danish International Development Agency.
Gulbinat, Habib Rachmat Hapsara, Joachim Hempel, Chair: Anthony R. Measham
Mark Kane, Hilary King, Jeffrey R. Koplan, Jacob
Kumaresan, Marie-Hélène Leclerq, Alan Lopez, In- Participants: Marja Antilla, Lynn Bailey, Jose Bar-
grid Martin, Alvaro Moncayo, Christopher J. L. Mur- zellato, Alfredo R. A. Bengzon, Luciano Carrino, Ge-
ray, Jenny Pronczuk, Jean-Marie Robine, Claude nevieve Chedville-Murray, Zafrullah Chowdhury,

174


--- Page 189 ---
Immita Cornaz, Göran Dahigren, Francois Decaillet, Chair: Jeffrey R. Koplan
Nicolas de Riviere, Tore Godal, Klaus Gordel, Arm- Participants: Ruth L. Berkelman, Ruth A. Etzel, Fran-
elle George-Guiton, Jacques Hallak, Kyo Hanada, çoise F. Hamers, Jeffrey R. Harris, Nancy C. Lee,
Anne Kristin Hermansen, Gillian Holmes, Jean-Paul Alan Lopez, Christopher J. L. Murray, Mark L.
Jardel, Eva Jesperseri, Jorge Jimenez de la Jara, Mat- Rosenberg, Richard B. Rothenberg, Frank M. Vinicor,
thias Kerker, Robert Kestell, Irene Klinger, Roif and Ray Yip
Korte, Louise Lassonde, Jean-Marie Laure, Robert S.
Lawrence, Rune Andreas Lea, Dominique Maroger, Seminars
Catherine Michaud, Rajiv L. Misra, Bernard Mon-
taville, W Muchenje, David N. Nabarro, Francois An important source of ideas for this Report was a
Orivel, Tom Ortiz, Aagje Papineau Saim, Liu series of seminars. Most were held at the World Bank
Peilong, Ines Penn, Martin Pinero, Peter Poore, Vu!- and were cosponsored by the World Bank's Popula-
imiri Ramalingaswami, Olikoye Ransome-Kuti, Brett tion, Health, and Nutrition Department. The Har-
Ridgeway, Jon Rohde, Yolanda Richardson, Kenneth vard Center for Population and Development Studies
Ross, Timothy Rothermel, Philippa Saunders, Chris- held a series of five seminars to assist in developing
topher Shaw, Leonardo Santos Simão, Stephen Si- World Development Report themes; these were orga-
mon, Margareta Sköld, Guillermo Soberon, Birgit nized by Lincoln C. Chen and Julio Frenk. The
Storgaard, Muthu Subramanian, Carl Wahren, George Washington University Center for Interna-
Ronald Wilson, Robert Wrin, Carlos Yanez-Barneuvo, tional Health held a seminar, organized by RosalIa
and Pat Youri Rodrigues-GarcIa, to critically review the findings of
Violence against Women the World Development Report.
February 12, 1993, Washington, D.C. This follow-up The World Bank series included presentations by
consultation to that on Interventions for Nervous Henry Aaron, John Akin, Kenneth Arrow, Amie Bat-
Systems Disorders focused on the health outcomes of son, Jere Behrman, David Bloom, Michael Cichon,
violence against women for the global burden of dis- Andrew Creese, Anil Deolalikar, Avi Dor and Janet
ease exercise. Hunt-McCool, Alain Enthoven, Michelle Fryer, Paul
Gertler, Eric Hanushek, Estelle James, Lawrence J.
Chair: Helen Saxenian Lau, Beryl Levinger, Joseph Newhouse, Abdel
Participants: Jacqueline Campbell, Walter Gulbinat, Omran, Joel Nobel, Francois Orivel, Charles Phelps,
Lori Heise, Dean Kilpatnick, and Christopher 1. L. Samuel Preston, Barry Popkin, Uwe Reinhardt,
Murray George Scheiber, T. Paul Schultz, Donald Shepard,
John Strauss, Duncan Thomas, Carol Vlassoff, and
Review of the Global Burden of Disease Beverly Winikoff.
March 15, 1993, Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention, Atlanta, Georgia

175


--- Page 190 ---
Bibliographical note

The Report has drawn on a wide range of World Bank Those outside the World Bank who contributed
reports and advice and on numerous outside sources. substantially with comments and material include
Special thanks go to the World Health Organization Aloysio Achutti, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande
(WHO) for providing extensive expert advice, techni- do Sul, who assisted with the preparation of Figure 3;
cal materials, and helpful comments. A. A. Afifi, University of California, Los Angeles;
The principal sources are noted below and are also Jere Behrman, University of Pennsylvania; Marit
listed alphabetically by author or organization in two Berggrav, Einar Heldal, Rune Andreas Lea, Johanne
groups: background papers commissioned for this Sundby, and Ann-Karin Valle, Norwegian Agency
Report and a selected bibliography. for International Development (NORAD); Barry
In addition to the sources listed, many people both Bloom, Albert Einstein College of Medicine; Robert
inside and outside the World Bank helped with the H. Cassen, International Development Centre, Ox-
Report. In particular, helpful comments were re- ford University; Immita Cornaz, Swiss Development
ceived from World Bank staff and consultants, includ- Cooperation; Göran Dahlgren, Swedish International
ing Alexandre Abrantes, Masood Ahmed, Michael Development Authority (SIDA); Joe H. Davis, Cen-
Azefor, Howard Barnum, Alan Berg, Eduard Bos, Pa- ters for Disease Control and Prevention; Antoine De-
tricia Daly, Willy De Geyndt, Janet de Merode, Jean- grémont, Swiss Tropical Institute; David Fraser, Aga
Jacques de St. Antoine, Dennis de Tray, Alfred Duda, Khan Institute; Lucy Gilson, London School of Hy-
Graham Dukes, Oscar Echeverri, A. Edward Elmen- giene and Tropical Medicine; Ted Greiner, Uppsala
dorf, James Green, Charles Griffin, Ann Hamilton, University; Davidson Gwatkin, International Health
Jeffrey Hammer, Barbara Herz, Janet Hohnen, Ishrat Policy Program; David J. Halliday, UNICEF; Gillian
Z. Husain, Estelle James, Emmanuel Jimenez, Eliz- Holmes and David Nabarro, U.K. Overseas Develop-
abeth King, Timothy King, Mubina Kirmani, Kathie ment Administration (ODA); William C. Hsiao, Har-
Krumm, Joseph Kutzin, Jean-Louis Lamboray, Kye vard School of Public Health; Valerie Hull, Australian
Woo Lee, Danny M. Leipziger, Maureen Lewis, Sam- International Development Assistance Bureau
uel Lieberman, Bernhart Liese, James Listorti, Mar- (AIDAB); Pamela Johnson, Richard Seifman, and
lame Lockheed, Jack Maas, Jo Martins, Judith Robert Wrin, U.S. Agency for International Develop-
McGuire, Mohan Munasinghe, Rieko Niimi, Mead ment (USAID); Joanne Leslie, UCLA School of Public
Over, Lisa Pachter, Ok Pannenborg, David Peters, Health; Adetokunbo 0. Lucas, Harvard University;
Ian Porter, Juan Prawda, George Psacharopoulos, A. J. McMichael, University of Adelaide; Peter Poore,
Sandra Rosenhouse, Anna Sant'Anna, Miguel John Seaman, and David Woodward, Save the Chil-
Schloss, Julian Schweitzer, lona Sebastian, Paul dren (U.K.); Barry Popkin, University of North Caro-
Shaw, James Socknat, Lyn Squire, Andrew Steer, lina; Vulimiri Ramalingaswami, Task Force on Health
Susan Stout, Vinod Thomas, Erik Thulstrup, Anne Research for Development; Patricia L. Rosenfield,
Tinker, Vincent Turbat, Jagadish Upadhyay, Denise Carnegie Corporation; Timothy S. Rothermel, United
Vaillancourt, Armand Van Nimmen, Herman van der Nations Development Programme (UNDP); A. Pa-
Tak, Dominique van de Walle, Claudia Von Monbart, pineau Saim, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Nether-
Marie-Odile Waty, Kin Bing Wu, Guillermo Yepes, lands; Philippa Saunders, OXFAM; Alfred Sommer
Mary E. Ming Young, and Shahid Yusuf. and Carl Taylor, Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene

176


--- Page 191 ---
and Public Health; Birgit Storgaard, Ministry of For- Bank-UNICEF exercise to be used in UNICEF forth-
eign Affairs, Denmark; Noel S. Weiss, University of coming and described in Hill and Yazbeck, back-
Washington; and Hans Emblad, Tore Godal, Marcus ground paper. Eduard Bos and My Vu of the World
Grant, Fritz Kaferstein, Wilfried Kreisel, Alan D. Bank's Population, Health and Nutrition Department
Lopez, and James C. Tulloch, WHO. provided invaluable assistance and advice with the
base regional population projections underlying
Chapter 1 much of Chapter 1 and Appendix A. Mortality as-
sumptions were updated and revised in the light of
This chapter draws on technical materials from the discussions with Larry Heligman of the United Na-
World Health Organization and the World Bank and tions Population Division, Gareth Jones of UNICEF,
on the scientific literature. The smallpox story is and recent data from the Demographic and Health
adapted from Fenner and others 1988. The discussion Surveys program provided by Ties Boerma or extrac-
of the gains in worker productivity from better health ted from recent reports. Nicholas Eberstadt contrib-
draws on studies by Castro and Mokate 1988, Conly uted useful ideas on mortality differentials in adult-
1975, Max and Shepard 1989, Nur and Mahran 1988, hood, and the section further benefited from
Pitt, Rosenzweig, and Hassan 1990, Sagan and Afifi Feachem and others 1992.
1979, Schultz and Tansel 1993, and Hill and others, The results in the section on the global burden of
background paper, as well as on helpful materials disease are taken from a joint World Bank-World
provided by John Caldwell, Gavin Jones, and John Health Organization study (Murray and Lopez back-
Anarfi. Anil Deolalikar provided additional material ground paper); many collaborators are listed in Ap-
on the economic impact of improved nutrition in In- pendix B. Material on measuring the burden of dis-
dia, and John Akin made available unpublished notes ease for Ghana, to establish health care priorities,
on the relationship between health and income. The came from Ghana Health Assessment Project Team
cost-benefit calculations of malaria eradication in Sri 1981. Feachem 1988 stresses the importance of "mac-
Lanka are derived from Barlow and Grobar 1985. roepidemiology" for health planning.
Aehyung Kim and Bruce Benton contributed to Box The section on challenges for the future is based on
1.1. Institute of Medicine 1992, Mackay 1993, and WHO
The discussion of the education benefits of im- 1992b and 1992c and on information on HIV and
proved health and the related economic benefits of AIDS provided by Seth Berkley, Rand Stoneburner,
improved education is based on studies by Behrman and WHO staff. D. A. Henderson provided informa-
and others 1991, Boissiere, Knight, and Sabot 1985, tion on emerging microbial infections; Tore Godal,
Glewwe 1991, Gomes-Neto and Hanushek 1991, Jam- Tekle Haimanot, and Hans Remme on malaria; and
ison and Leslie 1990, Jamison and Moock 1984, Nokes Alan D. Lopez and Neil Collishaw on smoking.
and others 1992, and Psacharopoulos 1993. Jacobs and others 1993 report on the development of
The section on reduced costs of medical care draws a test for drug resistance in tuberculosis.
on studies by Ainsworth and Over 1992, notes by The discussion on demographic and epidemiologic
David Bloom and Ajay Mahal on the implications of transition draws on studies by Bobadilla and others
reducing the rate of HIV transmission among Se- forthcoming, Frenk and others 1989, and Omran
ropositive individuals (with additional personal com- 1971. Country-specific discussions of the implications
munication from the authors) and Musgrove 1988. of epidemiological transition for health policy may be
Martha Ainsworth and Mead Over drafted Box 1.2. found in World Bank 1984a, World Bank 1990a, and
Bloom and Lyons 1993 provide analyses pointing to World Bank 1992a. The purchasing power parity per
the economic gains associated with AIDS prevention capita incomes used in Figure 1.9 were provided by
in a number of Asian countries. Angus Maddison. The discussion of the factors ex-
The discussion of the impact of health investments plaining mortality declines is based on Ewbank and
on poverty draws on the work of Henry Mosley and Preston 1990, McKeown 1976, and Preston and
on World Bank 1980 and 1990a. The record of success Haines 1991.
draws heavily on statistical publications of the United The structure and content of the chapter benefited
Nations (Demographic Yearbook, various years) and th from presentations made by Abdel Omran and Sam-
World Health Organization (Statistics Annual, various uel Preston. Valuable comments on earlier drafts
years). Ingram 1992 discusses the greater conver- were made by Joseph Cook and Richard Morrow.
gence of social (including health) indicators than of
income across countries. Chapter 2
Child mortality estimates are derived in part from
United Nations 1988 but were mostly calculated from This chapter draws on academic sources, presenta-
data in United Nations 1992 as part of a joint World tions by speakers in the seminar series cosponsored

177


--- Page 192 ---
by the World Development Report and the World Bank and 2.5, respectively. Robert Anda, David Bradley,
Population, Health and Nutrition Department, and John Briscoe, Mayra Buvinic, Brigitte Duces, Luis Es-
on numerous World Bank documents. The discussion cobedo, Paul Gertler, A. K. Shiva Kumar, Joanne
on household capacity (income and schooling) was Leslie, Ruth Levine, Jack Molyneaux, Damianos
informed by studies that included Anand and Ray- Odeh, Nick Prescott, Luis Serven, John Strauss, and
allion 1993, Behrman 1990, Benefo and Schultz 1992, Molly Tees contributed helpful data and resource ma-
Fuchs 1979, Grossman 1975, Hill and Palloni 1992, terials. Valuable comments on earlier drafts were re-
Jeyaratnam 1985, Lau and others, background paper, ceived from Sue Berryman, Joseph Bredie, Barbara
Luft 1978, Natale and others 1992, Oganov 1992, Pal- Bruns, Ishac Diwan, Edward Henevald, Eva Jarawan,
loni 1981, Pierce 1989, Pritchett and Summers, back- Himelda Martinez, Kenneth Shine, and David
ground paper, Rodgers 1979, Rogot, Sorlie, and John- Woodward.
son 1992, Strauss and others 1992, United Nations
1985, Wilkinson 1992, and World Bank 1990a. Chapter 3
The discussion on women's schooling and child
health drew on the extensive literature, including This chapter draws on a wide range of published
Bhargava and Yu 1992, Bruce and Lloyd 1992, Cald- and unpublished sources, including documentation
well 1986, Cleland 1990, Elo 1992, Engle 1991, Hod- and expertise from the World Health Organization
dinott and Haddad 1991, Kennedy 1992, King and and the World Bank and on the academic literature.
Hill 1993, Leslie 1989b, Lindenbaum, Chakraborty, Discussion of the role of government draws on World
and Elias 1985, Louat, Grosh, and van der Gaag 1992, Bank 1991. Jamison and others forthcoming summa-
Over and others 1992, Sahn 1990, Summers 1992, rizes the methods and findings of the cost effective-
Thomas 1990, Thomas, Strauss, and Henriques 1990, ness analysis that forms the starting point for the
and World Bank Water Demand Research Team 1993. analyses used in this report. The data on health ex-
The discussion on economic policy reform and ad- penditures in the first section were compiled from a
justment lending drew on sources that included background paper by Murray, Govindaraj, and
Behrman 1992, Berg and Hunter 1992, Edwards forth- Chellaraj, which used a wide range of government
coming, Kakwani, Makonnen, and van der Gaag health budgets, World Bank reports, and other coun-
1990, Serageldin, Elmendorf, and El-Tigani forthcom- try studies of health financing. Heller and Diamond
ing, Summers and Pritchett 1993, Thomas, Lavy, and 1990 also treat this issue. Data on equity in health
Strauss 1992, Woodward 1992, World Bank 1990b, status, access, and expenditure were drawn from the
World Bank 1992e, and World Bank 1993c. Duncan World Bank's Living Standard Measurement Study
Thomas contributed materials on protecting nonsal- (LSMS) and were further analyzed by Kalpana
ary spending during economic adjustment. Mehra. The analysis of costs and benefits of packages
The presentation on education policies was in- of public health measures and essential clinical ser-
formed by Alderman and others 1992, Jamison and vices draws on the background paper by Bobadilla
Leslie 1990, Jarousse and Mingat 1992, Lockheed, and others.
Verspoor, and associates 1991, Minhas 1991, Over Box 3.1 was drafted by Richard Bumgarner. Box 3.2
and Piot forthcoming, Tan and Mingat 1992, and is based on unpublished data provided by the Insti-
World Bank 1988. tuto Materno-Infantil de Pernambuco and on
The work on policies for empowering women drew UNICEF and IMIP 1992. Box 3.3 is from the chapters
on Akin and others 1985, Birdsall and McGreevey on measles and on tuberculosis in Jamison and others
1983, and Leslie 1989a. The discussion of women and forthcoming. The discussion of cost-effective inter-
violence benefited from assistance from Jacquelyn ventions also draws on Halstead, Walsh, and Warren
Campbell, Rosemary Garner, Lori Heise and Dean 1985, Walsh 1988, and Walsh and Warren 1979. Basic
Kilpatrick and drew on Archavanitkui and Pram- economic issues and their application are treated in
aualrantan 1990, Bradley 1988, CAMVAC 1985, Coun- Over 1991. The discussion of market failures in health
cil on Scientific Affairs 1992, COVAC 1990, Fauveau draws particularly on Arrow 1963. Insurance and reg-
and Blanchet 1989, Handwerker 1991, Hosken 1988, ulation are discussed generally in Diamond 1992 and
Koop 1989, Koss, Koss, and Woodruff 1991, Plitcha for Brazil in Piola and Vianna 1991. The section on
1992, Shim 1992, Stark 1984, and Stark and Flitcraft government failures in health policy takes examples
1991. from Evans, Barer, and Labelle 1988, Hlady and
Lawrence Lau contributed to the drafting of Box others 1992, and 1DB 1988. Equity examples are
2.1. Box 2.2 is based on material provided by Michelle drawn from Black and others 1982, Meerman 1980,
Fryer. Carmen Barroso, Lori Heise, and Nahid Toubia Musgrove 1986 and 1993, and President's Commis-
contributed to Box 2.3. John Hobcraft and Aloysio sion 1983, as well as from the work of Prescott and
Achutti assisted with the preparation of Figures 2.4 others on social spending in Indonesia. The discus-

178


--- Page 193 ---
sion of satisfaction with health care uses Bitran and 1990. Joanne Leslie contributed Box 4.1, and Jayshree
Mclnnes 1993, Blendon and others 1990, and Gertler Balachander contributed Box 4.2. Harold Alderman,
and van der Gaag 1990. Leslie 1989a discusses the George Beaton, Robert Black, Barry Bloom, Leslie
time cost of health interventions, an issue that is not Elder, Paul Elliott, Abraham Horwitz, Suraiya Ismail,
explicitly addressed in the cost-effectiveness calcula- Francisco Mardones, Reynaldo Martorell, John
tions reported here but that deserves further work. Mason, Paul McKeigue, Daan Mulder, Philip Payne,
Brook and Lohr 1986 provide evidence pointing to David Pelletier, and Peter Piot provided helpful infor-
huge overuse of medical care in the United States mation or comments.
beyond what is of value even at zero cost, resulting in The section on fertility drew on Cochrane and Mer-
part from third-party financing. rick, background paper, AbouZahr and Royston
Nicholas Barr, Peter Diamond, Robert Evans, and 1991, Amadeo, Chernichovsky, and Ojeda 1991,
Fernando Figueira provided valuable ideas and Bertrand and Brown 1992, Population Information
comments. Program 1992, Population Reference Bureau 1992a
Chapter 4 and 1992b, Sanderson and Tan forthcoming, Ste-
This chapter draws on documentation and expertise phenson and others 1992, United Nations forthcom-
from the World Health Organization and the World ing, World Bank 1984a, 1992c, and 1993a, and
Bank and from the academic literature, as well as on Zinanga 1992. Birgitta Bucht, Parker Mauldin, Vin-
cent Miller, Richard Osborn, Warren Sanderson, Bev-
expert consultations and on papers and discussions erley Winikoff, and the staff at the Rockefeller Foun-
in the seminar series sponsored by the World Develop- dation provided helpful materials and advice. John
ment Report and the World Bank Population, Health, Hobcraft assisted in the preparation of Figure 4.3.
and Nutrition Department. The section on tobacco, alcohol, and drugs bene-
The discussion on immunization and other popula- fited from materials and comments from Jerry Husch,
tion-based health services draws on ideas and data Judith Mackay, Richard Peto, and Derek Yack. The
discussed at the consultation on Child Health held in discussion drew on background materials from James
Baltimore in 1992. Berkley and Jamison 1991 discuss Cercone and from the U.S. Surgeon-General's 1992
the cost and effectiveness of school-based programs report on smoking in the Americas, as well as on
for mass treatment of worm infections and micro- Gutierrez-Fisac, Regidor, and Ronda 1992, Pierce
nutrient deficiencies. Assistance was also provided 1991, Walsh and others forthcoming, Wasserman and
by Amie Batson, Donald Bundy, Pamela Johnson, others 1991, and WHO 1991b and 1992e.
Marjorie Koblinsky, Jim Shepperd, Jacqueline The section on the environment benefited from the
Sherris, and Nebiat Tafari. Other sources were Bour- contributions of participants in a joint WHO-World
don, Orivel, and Perrot 1993, Brenzel 1990, Nokes Bank consultation (see Acknowledgments) and from
and others 1992, Robertson and others 1992, Shepard additional assistance provided by Carl Bartone,
and others 1989, and chapters in Jamison and others David Bates, Sue Binder, Gloria Davis, Roger Detels,
forthcoming on measles, polio, hepatitis B, tetanus, John Dixon, Mohamed T. El-Ashry, Gunnar Eske-
and helminth infection. land, Ruth Etzel, Philip Graitcer, Peter Kolsky, Tony
The section on diet and nutrition drew on Levin McMichael, David Rail, Anand Seth, and Anthony
and others forthcoming, Pinstrup-Anderson and Zwi. Data on the health impact of water supply and
others forthcoming, and a variety of other sources. sanitation were taken from the extensive literature
Valuable summaries of particular topics are given in and from recent reviews by Cairncross 1990, Esrey
ACC/SCN 1991, 1992a, and 1992b, Beaton and and others 1991, and Huttly 1990. The material on
Ghassemi 1987, Beaton and others 1993, Berg 1987, water and sanitation policy drew on Briscoe 1992,
Drèze and Sen 1989, Elliott 1988, Humphrey, West, World Bank 1992f, and World Bank Water Demand
and Sommer 1992, Keusch and Scrimshaw 1986, Les- Research Team 1993. Box 4.4 was drafted by Sandy
lie 1987, Leslie, Jamison, and Musgrove forthcoming, Cairncross. Box 4.5 relies on Blum and others 1990
McGuire and Popkin 1990, Monteiro 1988, National and on Feachem and others 1978 for time spent col-
Research Council 1989, Pelletier 1991, Pollitt 1990, lecting water. Michael Garn, Letitia Obeng, and
Popkin 1993, Sen 1981, Tomkins and Watson 1989, Guillermo Yepes contributed data on water and sani-
and U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention tation costs. Greg Watters collated the data in Figure
1992. The section also drew on studies by Adair and 4.6. The discussion of indoor air pollution rests on the
others 1993, Bhargava 1992, Black 1991, Bouis 1990, reviews by Betty Kirkwood and colleagues and on the
Lutter and others 1992, Mardones and Zamora 1989, work of Kirk Smith. Relevant literature included An-
Martorell and others 1992, Musgrove 1990, Stamler derson 1979, Chapman and others 1989, Chen and
and others 1989, Thomas, Lavy, and Strauss 1992, others 1990, Norboo and others 1991, Pandey and
Waaler 1984, and Walter, Olivares, and Hertrampf others 1989, Smith forthcoming, Smith and Liu 1993,

179


--- Page 194 ---
and Smith and Rodgers 1992. Christopher Curtis pre- Material on the success of prevention was drawn
pared Box 4.6, with assistance from Cohn Leake, from the literature and from a meeting at GPA/WHO
making use of data from Alonso and others 1991, in 1992. The costs and benefits of the public health
Curtis 1992, and Maxwell and others 1990. Discus- measures in the essential package are presented in
sion of housing policy was informed by World Bank Bobadilla and others, background paper.
1993b.
The discussion of the wider environment drew on Chapter 5
Doll 1992 and on the comprehensive accounts con-
tained in WHO 1992d and World Bank 1992f. The The costs and benefits of the clinical services in the
discussion on occupational health drew on Andreoni essential package are described in Bobadilla and
1986, El Batawi and Husbumrer 1987, and Wegman others, background paper. The discussion of the cost
1992. The discussion of the ambient environment of the essential package of clinical services and mech-
drew on the extensive literature, including Bellinger anisms for delivering it drew on the work of the
and others 1987, Bradley and others 1992, Faiz and World Bank's Africa Technical Department and
others forthcoming, Lancet 1992, MRC 1989, Needle- World Bank forthcoming. The components of the es-
man and others 1990, Romieu 1992, Romieu, sential package of clinical services for children drew
Weitzenfeld, and Finkelman 1990, Schwartz and on analyses from UNICEF 1993 and on priorities pro-
Dockery 1992, WHO 1992a, and WHO/UNEP 1992. posed in UNICEF, WHO, and UNESCO 1991. The
The material for Box 4.7 is taken from Bobak 1993, analyses of sources of health financing, provider
Bobak and Feachem 1992, Bobak and Leon 1992, and compensation, and alternative modes of service de-
World Bank 1992d. Box 4.8 is taken from Study livery are based on the work of Arrow 1963, Barr
Group for Global Environment and Economics 1991, 1992, Griffin 1992, Hsiao 1992, Hurst 1992, Reinhardt
supplied by Tord Kjellstrom. José Carbajo, Paul Gui- 1991, Schneider and others 1992, van Doorslaer, Wag-
tink, Zmarak Shalizi, and John Wootton assisted with staff, and Rutten 1993, and World Bank 1992a. It
the section on transport risks, which also drew on draws on and is closely linked with a series of papers
Barss and others forthcoming, Downing 1991, John- by the World Health Organization: WHO 1991a, on
ston 1992, Smith and Barss 1991, TRRL 1991, WHO health care reform in Eastern and Central Europe;
1989a, and Zwi 1992. WHO 1991c, on the public-private mix; and WHO
The section on AIDS benefited from the contribu- 1993.The analysis of user charges and community fi-
tions made by members of the AIDS consultation (see
Acknowledgments) and from additional assistance nancing draws on the work of Abel-Smith and Dua
from Richard Hayes, Daan Mulder, Peter Piot, 1988, Gertler and van der Gaag 1990, Hecht, Over-
Wendy Roseberry, Allan Rosenfield, Gary Slutkin, holt, and Holmberg 1993, Korte and others 1992,
and Peter Smith. Projections of numbers of infections Lewis and Parker 1991, Litvack and Bodart 1993,
were generated by Tony Burton, Rand Stoneburner, McPake, Hanson, and Mills 1992, and others. The
and other staff of the Global Programme on AIDS of discussion of health insurance in developing coun-
the World Health Organization (GPA/WHO). Mate- tries draws on Abel-Smith 1992b, De Geyndt 1991,
rial on the core groups is drawn from Moses and Ikegami 1992, Kutzin and Barnum 1992, McGreevey
others 1991 and Over and Piot forthcoming. The ac- 1990, Mesa-Lago 1992, Vogel 1989, Yang 1991, and Yu
count of community intervention in Zimbabwe is and Anderson 1992. Analysis of the determinants of
drawn from material supplied by David Wilson. Ma- health spending in the OECD countries draws on
terial on HIV and breastfeeding is drawn from Dunn Gerdtham and others 1992. The review of options for
and others 1992 and various WHO materials. Box 4.9 improving public and private delivery of clinical ser-
draws on Goodgame 1990, Katabira and Goodgame vices draws on Bennett 1992, Foster 1991, and World
1989, and Muller and others 1992. Information on Bank 1992g. The discussion of managed competition
voluntary testing and counseling is drawn from Fos- relies on Enthoven 1988 and Relman 1993. The dis-
ter 1990, Muller and others 1992, and WHO Global cussion of decentralization of health services draws
Programme on AIDS 1993b. Estimations of the cost of on Mills and others 1990 and World Bank 1992b.
worldwide prevention were drawn from WHO Box 5.1 draws on material produced by Marjorie
Global Programme on AIDS 1993a and WHO forih- Koblinsky and on Tinker and Koblinsky 1993 and
coming, and from work by Doris Schopper. The dis- Walsh and others forthcoming. Box 5.2 was prepared
cussion of the cost-effectiveness of treating sexually with information provided by James C. Tulloch and
transmitted diseases is drawn from Moses and others Sandra Gove of WHO. Box 5.3 draws on material
1992, and Over and Piot forthcoming. Box 4.10 is provided by Judith Wasserheit. Box 5.4 was based on
drawn from Viravaidya, Obremsky, and Myers 1991 Murray, Styblo, and Rouillon forthcoming. Box 5.5
and from materials contributed by Werasit Sittitrai. draws on Grosh 1992. Box 5.6 uses material from

180


--- Page 195 ---
Schieber, Poullier, and Greenwald 1992 and the re- coming, Reyes and Picazo 1990, Richards and Fulop
suits of analysis by the WDR team of the relationship 1987, Schmidt and others 1991, Schroeder 1984 and
between the public share of health spending and 1992, Schwab 1987, Tarlov 1986 as cited in Reinhardt
health care costs. Box 5.7 is based on material from 1991, Welch and others 1993, Whitfield 1987, and un-
Hurst 1992. Werner 1987 discusses approaches to published material from Ruth Roemer and WHO. In
low-cost but effective rehabilitation from disability. Box 6.2 the discussion of community health workers
Peter Berman and Louis Vassiliou provided useful in Jamaica draws on Cumper and Vaughan 1985. The
material and Alfred Bartlett, Ricardo Bitran, Michael discussion of the Pastoral da Crianca draws on mate-
Cichon, Andrew Creese, Jennie Litvack, Kasa Asila rials provided by the Coordenacao Nacional da Pas-
Pangu, John Rohde, Abdelmajid Tibouti, Jacques van toral da Crianca and on Victora and Barros 1990.
der Gaag, Ronald Wilson, and Zia Yusuf made valu- The drug discussion draws on Andersson 1992,
able comments. Caplan 1985, Foster 1990, Hlady and others 1992,
Holly and Lee 1992, Kanji and others 1992, Laing
Chapter 6 1990, Management Sciences for Health 1992, Nazerali
1992, Office of Technology Assessment 1993,
This chapter draws on technical materials from the Thomas, Lavy, and Strauss 1992, Tomson and Sterky
World Health Organization and the World Bank and 1986, and WHO 1988a, 1988b, and 1988c. Box 6.5
from the scientific literature. Regional estimates of draws on World Bank material and on Barros and
hospital beds, physicians, and nurses are from others 1986 and Fadndes and Cecatti 1993. Informa-
OECD, WHO, World Bank, and national statistics. tion on the INCLEN program is from Halstead, Tug-
The hospital and district health system discussion well, and Bennet 1991. The information and research
draws on Barnum and Kutzin 1993 and World Bank to guide decisionmaking draws on Enthoven 1989.
forthcoming. Estimates of global spending on health research are
Valuable comments and materials were provided from the Commission on Health Research for Devel-
by Orvil Adams, Uche Amazigo, Harvey Bale, Wil- opment 1990. The health research discussion also
bert Bannenberg, Pascal Brudon-Jakobowicz, Robert draws on Free 1991, Godal 1993, and WHO 1991d.
Cassen, Gilles Dussault, Anibal Faündes, Enrique
Feffer, Michael Free, Julio Frenk, John Gil-Martin, Chapter 7
Wendy Graham, Richard Heller, Richard Laing, John
Lloyd, Alfonso MejIa, Violaine Mitchell, Hiroshi Na- Information on health policy reform was provided by
katani, Vic Neufeld, Joel Nobel, Joao Batista Oliveira, Jonathan Broomberg for South Africa, Louise Fox for
Diego Palacio, David Porter, Michael Porter, Jim Romania, Salim Habayeb for India, Evangeline Javier
Rankin, Una Reid, and staff of the Aga Khan Devel- for Chile, and Mary E. Ming Young for Poland. The
opment Network and the Aga Khan Foundation. section on aid flows is based on the background pa-
Box 6.1 was prepared by Tamara Fox and Ruth Le- per on aid by Michaud and Murray, which used a
vine. Estimates of medical equipment expenditure wide range of data from Organization for Economic
are from Rozynski and Gallivan 1992. Cooperation and Development, United Nations, and
Estimates on the efficiency of outpatient surgery in bilateral sources. The discussion of international
Colombia are from Shepard and others 1990. Hospital health research draws heavily on Commission on
planning experience in the United States is based on Health Research for Development 1990. John Barton
Davis and others 1990. The discussion of regional and Selcuk Ozgediz furnished material on the Con-
planning is based in part on Jonsson 1989. The rela- sultative Group for International Agricultural Re-
tionship between the volume of surgery and health search (CGIAR) and its relevance for health research.
outcomes is based on Hughes, Hunt, and Luft 1987. Valuable comments on the draft chapter were re-
Papua New Guinea's experience with containing ceived from John Evans. Box 7.1 is based on UNICEF!
hospital spending is based on Newbrander 1987. The Bamako Initiative Management Unit 1990 and 1992
medical equipment discussion draws on Bloom 1989, and on the evaluation study by McPake, Hanson, and
Bruley 1991, Garber and Fuchs 1991, Gelijns and Mills 1992. Box 7.2 draws on World Bank reports on
Halm 1991, Halbwachs 1992, and WHO various Chile and on material provided by Thomas Bossert
years. Abel-Smith 1992a and Rublee 1989 provided on evaluations of health-financing reforms and de-
information on medical technology policies in indus- centralization. Box 7.3 uses material provided by Dov
trial countries. Chernichovsky and George Schieber. Box 7.4 encap-
The human resources for health discussion draws sulates the findings of Cassen and others 1986 and
on Abel-Smith 1986, Enthoven and Vorhaus 1992, Riddell 1987 in particular. Guy Ellena and Joseph
Evans 1981, Foster 1987, Frenk and others 1991, Kutzin assisted with Box 7.5. Box 7.6 draws heavily
Fuchs 1978, Institute of Medicine 1988, Javitt forth- on World Bank 1993d.

181


--- Page 196 ---
Appendix A Deborah Symmons, B.-I. Thylefors, Ian Timeus,
Carol Torel, James C. Tulloch, Ronald Waldman,
Appendix A benefited from contributions from many Godfrey Walker, Jay Wenger, William Whang, Erica
institutions; particularly valuable were the data re- Wheeler, Russell Wilkins, G. Yang, R. Yip, and
ceived from WHO and UNICEF. Richard Bumgarner Anthony Zwi.
and Godfrey Walker of WHO provided information Others who contributed include M. Adrian, Ann
for many of the health indicators. Gareth Jones, Ashworth-Hill, P. Blake, Uwe Brinkman, C. Broome,
UNICEF, contributed sources of data for nutritional Richard Bumgarner, Jacqueline Campbell, P. Car-
indicators. Shea Rutstein from the Demographic and levaro, Mary Chamie, Lincoln C. Chen, D. P. J.
Health Surveys project provided data on breastfeed- Daumerie, Hans Emblad, R. Etzel, Paul Fine, A.
ing. Robert Hartford and Francis Notzon made avail- Galazka, Marito Garcia, S. Gillespie, Marcus Grant,
able the database on perinatal and infant mortality R. J. Guidotti, Francoise Hamers, H. R. Hapsara, J.
from the National Center of Health Statistics. Roy Harris, Peter Heller, Alan Hill, C. J. Hong, H. Jamai,
Miller, USAID, commented on an earlier version of Fritz Kaferstein, Alex Kalache, N. Khaltaeve, Betty
the appendix. My Vu of the World Bank's Population, Kirkwood, Arata Kochi, Jacob Kumaresan, N. Lee,
Health, and Nutrition Department was responsible Anthony Mann, Ingrid Martin, G. Mayberly, Juan
for preparing the statistical appendix for World Bank Menchaca, Michel Mercier, T. R. Mertens, Alvaro
forthcoming, which was extensively used in the ap- Moncayo, Richard Morrow, Y. Motarjemi, Shaik Na-
pendix, and processed raw data on several of the deen, William Newbrender, M. Noel, Godfrey
selected health indicators. James Cercone helped pro- Oakley, D. Peterson, A. Pio, G. R. Quinke, C. P.
cess data on mortality by broad causes of death. Ramachandran, M. Rosenberg, Norman Sartorius,
Alan M. Schapira, Gordon Smith, Peter Smith, T.
Appendix B Studwick, M. Thuriaux, Andrew Tomkins, Patrick
Vaughan, S. Vidwans, F. Vinicor, and Diana Weil.
The global burden of disease study was directed by The methodology used for this study drew in part
Christopher Murray and Alan D. Lopez. The results on the established literature on quality-adjusted life
reported here come from Murray and Lopez, back- years (see Torrance 1986). One of the first applica-
ground paper; a much expanded discussion will ap- tions to developing countries was Ghana Health As-
pear in Murray and Lopez forthcoming (a). Contribu- sessment Project Team 1981.
tions from the United Kingdom were coordinated by
Jonathan Broomberg.
Substantial contributions and comments on spe- Background papers
cific diseases and injuries came from the following
individuals: Carla AbouZahr, Mike Adams, Paul Ar- Bobadilla, José-Luis, Peter Cowley, Helen Saxenian, and
thur, Robert Ashley, Kenneth Bailey, David Barmes, Philip Musgrove. "The Essential Package of Health Ser-
L. Barnes, Robert Beaglehole, Mark Belsey, Stephen vices in Developing Countries."
Berman, Barry Bloom, M. Blossner, Loretta Brabin, Cochrane, Susan, and Thomas W. Merrick. "Improving Ma-
Donald Bundy, A. Burton, P. D. Cattand, Jacqueline ternal and Child Health through Family Planning
Cattani, Chen Chunming, Caroline J. Cook, Edward Services."
Cooper, P. M. P. Desjeux, Jacques Ferlay, 1. Fomey, Hecht, Robert M., and Vito L. Tanzi. "The Role of NGOs in
Jean-Claude Funck, Michel Garenne, Tore Godal, the Delivery of Health Services in Developing
Anne Goerdt, Johnathan Gorstein, Sandra Gove, Countries."
Hill, Kenneth, and Abdo Yazbeck. "Trends in Child Mortal-
Ramesh Govindaraj, Walter Gulbinat, Ivan Gyarfas, ity, 1960-90: Estimates for 84 Developing Countries."
Lori Heise, Larry Heligman, Joachim Hempel, Em- Hill, Kenneth, Dean T. Jamison, Lawrence J. Lau, Jee-Peng
manuel Jimenez, Mark Kane, Patrick Kenya, Dean Tan, and Abdo Yazbeck. "The Impact of Health Status on
Kilpatrick, Hilary King, Jeffrey Koplan, Marie-Helene Economic Growth."
Leclerq, Linda Lloyd, Julian Lobb-Levyt, Luis Lopez Lau, Lawrence, Abdo Yazbeck, Kenneth Hill, Dean T. Jam-
Bravo, David Mabey, Prasanta Mahapatra, Paul ison, and Jee-Peng Tan. "Sources of Child Health Gains
McKeigue, Graham Medley, Edwin Michael, Cath- since the 1960s: An International Comparison."
Michaud, Catherine, and Christopher Murray. "Aid Flows
erine Michaud, Kenneth Mott, A.-D. Negrel, Mag- to the Health Sector in Developing Countries."
daline Orzeszyna, Max Parkin, Richard Peto, P. Pi- Murray, Christopher, and Alan D. Lopez. "The Global Bur-
sani, Jenny Pronczuk, E. Pupulin, Xinjian Qiao, Ravi den of Disease in 1990."
Rannan-Eliya, Hans Remme, Jean-Marie Robine, Murray, Christopher, Ramesh Govindaraj, and G.
Claude J. Romer, Richard Rothenberg, Peter Sand- Chellaraj. "Global Domestic Expenditures in Health."
iford, Elizabeth Sherwin, Alan Silman, Buranaj Murray, Christopher, Jay Kreuser, and William Whang.
Smutharaks, Jan Stjernsward, Rand Stoneburner, "Cost-Effectiveness Model for Allocating Health Sector
Resources."

182


--- Page 197 ---
Pritchett, Lant, and Lawrence H. Summers. "Wealthier IsHealthier." Amadeo, Jesus, Dov Chernichovsky, and Gabriel Ojeda.
Yazbeck, Abdo, Jee-Peng Tan, and Vito L. Tanzi. "Public 1991. "The Profamilia Family Planning Program, Colom-
Spending on Health in the 1980s: The Impact of Adjust- bia." Policy, Research, and External Affairs Working Pa-
ment Lending Programs." per Series 759. World Bank, Population and Human Re-
sources Department, Washington, D.C.
Anand, Sudhir, and Martin Ravallion. 1993. "Human De-
Selected bibliography velopment in Poor Countries: On the Role of Private In-
comes and Public Services." Journal of Economic Perspec-
Aaron, Henry J. 1991. Serious and Unstable Condition: Financ- tives 7(1): 133-50.
ing America's Health Care. Washington, D.C.: Brookings Anderson, H. R. 1979. "Chronic Lung Disease in the Papua
Institution. New Guinea Highlands." Thorax34: 647-53.
Abel-Smith, Brian. 1986. "The World Economic Crisis, Part Andersson, Fredrik. 1992. "Norway's Pivotal Role in Regu-
2: Health Manpower out of Balance." Health Policy and latory Health Economics and Pharmaceutical Cost Con-
Planning 1(4): 309-16. tainment-What Can Other Countries Learn?" Health Pol-
1992a. "Cost Containment and New Priorities in icy 21: 17-34.
the European Community." Milbank Memorial Fund Quar- Andreoni, Diego. 1986. "The Cost of Occupational Acci-
terly 70(3): 393-416. dents and Diseases." Occupational Safety and Health Se-
1992b. Cost Containment and New Priorities in Health ries 54. International Labour Office, Geneva.
Care. Aldershot, U.K.: Ashgate Publishing. Archavanitkui, K., and A. Pramaualrantan. 1990. "Factors
1992c. "Health Insurance in Developing Coun- Affecting Women's Health in Thailand." Paper presented
tries: Lessons from Experience." Health Policy and Plan- at the Workshop on Women's Health in Southeast Asia,
ning 7(3): 215-26. Population Council, Jakarta, October 29-31.
Abel-Smith, Brian, and Ajay Dua. 1988. "Community Fi- Arrow, Kenneth. 1963. "Uncertainty and the Welfare Eco-
nancing in Developing Countries: The Potential for the nomics of Medical Care." American Economic Review 53:
Health Sector." Health Policy and Planning 3(2): 95-108. 941-73.
AbouZahr, Carla, and Erica Royston, comps. 1991. Maternal Ballance, Robert, Janos Pogany, and Helmut Forstner. 1992.
Mortality: A Global Fact book. Geneva: World Health The World's Pharmaceutical Industries: An International Per-
Organization. spective on Innovation, Competition, and Policy. Published for
ACC!SCN (Administrative Committee on Coordination! the United Nations Industrial Development Organization.
Subcommittee on Nutrition). 1991. Controlling Iron Defi- Aldershot, U.K.: Edward Elgar Publishing.
ciency. Nutrition Policy Discussion Paper 9. Geneva: Barcellos, Tanya, Carmen Barros, Naia Oliveira, Vera Gar-
World Health Organization. cia, Laureane Pastore, and Mercedes Rabelo. 1986. "Seg-
1992a. Nutrition and Population Links: Breastfeeding, regacao Urbana e Mortalidade em Porto Alegre." Fun-
Family Planning and Child Health. Nutrition Policy Discus- dacao de Economia e Estatistica, Porto Alegre, Brazil.
sion Paper 11. Geneva: World Health Organization. Barlow, Robin, and Lisa M. Grobar. 1985. "Costs and Bene-
1992b. Second Report on the World Nutrition Situa- fits of Controlling Parasitic Diseases." World Bank, Popu-
tion. Vol. 1: Global and Regional Results. Geneva: World lation, Health, and Nutrition Department, Washington,
Health Organization. D.C.
Achutti, Aloysio, B. B. Duncan; Luis Ruiz, and M. I. Barnum, Howard. 1987. "Evaluating Health Days of Life
Schmidt. 1988. "Programas de Saüde do Adulto." Paper Gained from Health Projects." Social Science and Medicine
prepared for the World Bank Study on Adult Health in 24(10): 833-41.
Brazil. World Bank, Washington, D.C. Barnum, Howard, and Joseph Kutzin. 1993. Public Hospitals
Adair, L., Barry M. Popkin, J. VanDerslice, John S. Akin, in Developing Countries: Resource Use, Cost, Financing. Balti-
David K. Guilkey, R. Black, John Briscoe, and W Flieger. more, Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press.
1993. "Growth Dynamics during the First Two Years of Barr, Nicholas. 1992. "Economic Theory and the Welfare
Life: A Prospective Study in the Philippines." European State: A Survey and Interpretation." Journal of Economic
Journal ofClinical Nutrition47: 42-51. Literature 30 (June): 741-803.
Ainsworth, Martha, and Mead Over. 1992. "The Economic Barros, F. C., and others. 1986. "Why So Many Cesarean
Impact of AIDS: Shocks, Responses, and Outcomes." Sections: The Need for Further Policy Change in Brazil."
Technical Working Paper 1. World Bank, Africa Technical Health Policy and Planning 1(19).
Department, Washington, D.C. Barss, P., G. S. Smith, D. Mohan, and S. P. Baker. Forth-
Akin, John S., David K. Guilkey, Charles C. Griffin, and coming. Injuries in Adults in Developing Countries: Epide-
Barry M. Popkin. 1985. The Demand for Primary Health Ser- miology and Policy. New York: Oxford University Press.
vices in the Third World. Totowa, N.J.: Roman and Baumol, William J. 1992. "Private Affluence, Public Squa-
Allanheld. br." C. V. Starr Center for Applied Economics, New York.
Alderman, Harold, Jere Behrman, Shahrukh Khan, David Beaton, George H., and Hossein Ghassemi. 1987. "Supple-
Ross, and Richard Sabot. 1992. "Public Schooling Expen- mentary Feeding Programs for Young Children in Devel-
ditures in Rural Pakistan: Efficiently Targeting Girls and a oping Countries: A Summary of Lessons Learned." In J.
Lagging Region." Paper presented at a World Bank con- Price Gittinger, Joanne Leslie, and Caroline Hoisington,
ference on Public Expenditure on the Poor, July 17-19, eds., Food Policy: Integrating Supply, Distribution, and Con-
Washington, D.C. sumption. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins University
Alonso, P. L., S. W. Lindsay, J. R. M. Armstrong, M. Con- Press.
teh, P. H. David, G. Fegan, A. de Francisco, A. J. Hall,
F. C. Shenton, K. Cham, and B. M. Greenwood. 1991.
of Gambian Children." Lancet 337: 1499-1515."The Effect of Insecticide Treated Bed-Nets on Mortality

183


--- Page 198 ---
Beaton, George H., R. Martorell, K. A. L'Abbe, B. Ed- Birdsall, Nancy, and William McGreevey. 1983. "Women,
monston, G. McCabe, A. C. Ross, and B. Harvey. 1993. Poverty and Development." In Mayra Buvinic, Margaret
'Effectiveness of Vitamin A Supplementation in the Con- Lycette, and William Paul McGreevey, eds., Women and
trol of Young Child Morbidity and Mortality in Develop- Poverty in the Third World. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins
ing Countries." A project of the International Nutrition University Press.
Program, Department of Nutritional Sciences, University Bitran, Ricardo A., and D. Keith Mclnnes. 1993. The Demand
of Toronto. for Health Care in Latin America: Lessons from the Dominican
Behrman, Jere R. 1990. The Action of Human Resources and Republic and El Salvador. Economic Development Institute
Poverty on One Another: What We Have Yet to Learn. Living Seminar Paper 46. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
Standards Measurement Study Working Paper 74. Wash- Black, Douglas, J. N. Morris, Cyril Smith, Peter Townsend,
ington, D.C.: World Bank. and Nick Davidson, eds. 1982. The Black Report. New
1992. "The Effect of Structural Adjustment on York: Penguin Books.
Food Policy and Nutrition." Paper presented at the Inter- Black, Robert E. 1991. "Would Control of Childhood Infec-
national Union for the Scientific Study of Population tious Diseases Reduce Malnutrition?" Acta Paediatrica
(IUSSP) seminar on the Demographic Consequences of Scandinavica (Supplement) 374: 133-40.
Structural Adjustment in Latin America, Belo Horizonte, Blendon, Robert J., R. Leitman, 1. Morrison, and K. Don-
Brazil, September 29.-October 2. elan. 1990. "Satisfaction with Health Systems in 10 Na-
Behrman, jere R., David Ross, Richard Sabot, and Matthew tions." Health Affairs 9(2): 185-92.
Tropp. 1991. "Improving the Quality versus Increasing Bloom, Barry R., and Christopher J. L. Murray. 1992. "Tu-
the Quantity of Schooling." University of Pennsylvania, berculosis: Commentary on a Reemergent Killer." Science
Philadelphia, Pa. 257(21 August): 1055-64.
Bellinger, D., A. Leviton, C. Waternaux, H. Needleman, Bloom, David E., and Joyce V. Lyons, eds. 1993. Economic
and M. Rabinowitz. 1987. "Longitudinal Analyses of Pre- Implications of AIDS in Asia. UNDP Regional Progamme
natal and Postnatal Lead Exposure and Early Cognitive Division (Regional Bureau for Asia and the Pacific). New
Development." New England Journal of Medicine 316: Delhi: HIV/AIDS Regional Project.
1037-43. Bloom, Gerald. 1989. "The Right Equipment. . . in Working
Benefo, Kofi, and T. Paul Schultz. 1992. "Fertility and Child Order." World Health Forum 10(1): 3-10.
Mortality in Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana." World Bank, Afri- Blum, D., R. N. Emeh, S. R. A. Huttly, 0. Dosunmu-
can Technical Department, Population, Health, and Nu- Ogunbi, N. Okeke, M. Ajala, J. I. Okoro, C. Akujobi, B.
trition Division, Washington, D.C. R. Kirkwood, and R. G. Feachem. 1990. "The lmo State
Bennett, Sara. 1992. "Promoting the Private Sector: A Re- Nigeria Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Project. 1.
view of Developing Country Trends." Health Policy and Description of the Project, Evaluation Methods, and Im-
Planning 7(2): 97-110. pact on Intervening Variables." Transactions of the Royal
Berg, Alan. 1987. Malnutrition: What Can Be Done? Lessons Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 84: 309-15.
from World Bank Experience. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins Bobadilla, José-Luis, Julio Frenk, Tomas Freijka, Rafael
University Press. Lozano, and Claudio Stern. Forthcoming. "The Epidem-
Berg, Elliot, and Graeme Hunter. 1992. "Social Costs of Ad- iological Transition and Health Priorities." In Dean T
justment: The Case of Latin America and the Caribbean." Jamison, W. Henry Mosley, Anthony R. Measham, and
Prepared for the U.S. Agency for International Develop- José-Luis Bobadilla, eds., Disease Control Priorities in Devel-
ment. Development Alternatives, Inc., Bethesda, Md. oping Countries. New York: Oxford University Press.
Berkley, Seth, and Dean jamison. 1991. "Summary Re- Bobak, M. 1993. "Air Pollution and Health in Central and
port." Conference on the Health of School-Age Children, Eastern Europe: How Bad Is the Problem?" London
sponsored by the United Nations Development Pro- School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
gramme and the Rockefeller Foundation, Bellagio, Italy, Bobak, M., and R. G. A. Feachem. 1992. "Health Status in
August 12-16. the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic." Health Policy and
Bertrand, Jane T., and Judith Brown. 1992. "Family Plan- Planning 7: 234-42.
ning Success in Two Cities in Zaire." Policy, Research, Bobak, M., and D. A. Leon. 1992. "Air Pollution and Infant
and External Affairs Working Paper Series 1042. World Mortality in the Czech Republic, 1986-88." Lancet 340:
Bank, Population and Human Resources Department, 1010-14.
Washington, D.C. Boissiere, M., J. B. Knight, and R. H. Sabot. 1985. "Earn-
Bhargava, Alok. 1992. "Malnutrition and the Role of Indi- ing, Schooling, Ability and Cognitive Skills." American
vidual Variation with Evidence from India and the Philip- Economic Review 75: 1026-30.
pines." Journal of the Royal Statistical Society 155. Boring, Catherine C., Teresa S. Squires, and Tony Tong.
Bhargava, Alok, and hang Yu. 1992. "A Longitudinal Analy- 1993. "Cancer Statistics 1993." CA-Cancer Journal for Cli-
sis of Infant and Child Mortality Rate in Africa and Non- nicians 43 (Jan-Feb.): 7-26.
African Developing Countries." Background paper pre- Bos, Eduard, My T. Vu, Ann Levin, and Rodolfo A. Bulatao.
pared for the Africa Health Study. World Bank, Africa 1992. World Population Projections 1992-93 Edition: Estimates
Technical Department, Washington, D.C. and Projections with Related Demographic Statistics. Balti-
Birdsall, Nancy. Forthcoming. "Pragmatism, Robin Hood,and Other Themes: Good Government and Social Well-more, Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press.
Being in Developing Countries." In Lincoln C. Chen, Ar- Bouis, Howarth E. 1990. "The Determinants of Household-
thur Kleinman, and Norma C. P. Ware, eds., Health and Level Demand for Micronutrients: An Analysis for Philip-
pine Farm Households." International Food Policy Re-
Social Science in International Perspective. Harvard Series on search Institute, Washington, D.C.
Population and International Health. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press.

184


--- Page 199 ---
Bourdon, Jean, François Orivel, and Jean Perrot. 1993. Cleland, John. 1990. "Maternal Education and Child Sur-
"Peut-on Apprecier un Lien entre les Acquisitions vival: Further Evidence and Explanations." In John Cald-
Scolaires et Ia Sante: Le Cas de l'Enseignement Primaire well, Sally Findley, Pat Caldwell, Gigi Santow, Wendy
au Tchad." Paper presented at meetings of the Associa- Cosford, Jennifer Braid, and Daphne Broers-Freeman,
tion Francais de Sciences Economiques, Dijon. May eds., What We Know about Health Transition: The Cultural,
27-28. Social, and Behavioural Determinants of Health. Health Tran-
Bradley, Christine. 1988. "How Can We Help Rural Beaten sition Series, Vol. 1. Canberra: Australian National
Wives? Some Suggestions from Papua New Guinea." Pa- University.
per presented at International Women's Aid Conference, Coale, Ansley J., and Paul Demeny, with Barbara Vaughan.
Cardiff, Wales. 1983. Regional Model Life Tables and Stable Populations. 2d
Bradley, David John, Sandy Cairncross, Trudy Harpham, ed. New York: Academic Press.
and Carolyn Stephens. 1992. A Reviezt' of Environmental Comanor, William S. 1986. "The Political Economy of the
Health Impacts in Developing Country Cities. Urban Manage- Pharmaceutical Industry." Journal of Economic Literature 24
ment Program Paper 6. Washington, D.C.: World Bank. (September): 1178-1217.
Brenzel, Logan. 1990. 'The Costs of EPI: Lessons Learned Commission on Health Research for Development. 1990.
from Cost and Cost-Effectiveness Studies of Immuniza- Health Research: Essential Link to Equity in Development.
tion Programs." Resources for Child Health (REACH) New York: Oxford University Press.
Project. John Snow, Inc., Arlington, Va. Conly, G. N. 1975. The Impact of Malaria on Econo,nic Develop-
Briscoe, John. 1992. "Poverty and Water Supply: How to ment: A Case Study. Scientific Publication 297. Washing-
Move Forward." Finance and Development 29: 16-19. ton, D.C.: Pan American Health Organization.
Brook, Robert H., and Kathleen N. Lohr. 1986. "Will We Council on Scientific Affairs, American Medical Association.
Need to Ration Effective Health Care?" Issues in Science 1992. "Violence against Women: Relevance for Medical
and Technology 3(1): 68-77. Practitioners." JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Asso-
Brotowasisto, Oscar Gish, Ridwan Malik, and Paramita ciation 267(23): 3184-89.
Sudharto. 1988. "Health Care Financing in Indonesia." COVAC. 1990. "Evaluación de Proyecto para Educación,
Health Policy and Planning 3(2): 131-40. Capacitación, y Atención a Mujeres y Menores de Edad en
Bruce, Judith, and Cynthia B. Lloyd. 1992. "Finding the Ties Materia de Violencia Sexual, Enero a Diciembre 1990."
That Bind: Beyond Headship and Household." Working Asociación Mexicana Contra Ia Violencia a las Mujeres,
Paper 41. Population Council, New York. Mexico City.
Bruley, Mark E. 1991. "Global Trends in Healthcare Tech- Cumper, George, and Patrick Vaughan. 1985. "Community
nology." Keynote address at Health-Tech 91: Health Tech- Health Aides at the Crossroads," World Health Forum 6:
nology in Developing Countries: Assessment, Procure- 365-67.
ment, and Maintenance, Yaoundé, Cameroon, March 11. Curtis, C. F. 1992. "Spraying Bed-Nets with Deltamethrin in
ECRI, Plymouth Meeting, Pa. Sichuan, China." Tropical Diseases Bulletin 89(8): R1-R6.
Cairncross, A. M. 1990. "Health Impacts in Developing Davis, Karen, Gerard F. Anderson, Diane Rowland, and
Countries: New Evidence and New Prospects." Journal of Earl P. Steinberg. 1990. Health Care Cost Containment.
the Institution of Water and Environmental Management 4(6): Johns Hopkins Studies in Health Care Finance and Ad-
571-77. ministration. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins University
Cairncross, Sandy. 1992. "Sanitation and Water Supply: Press.
Practical Lessons from the Decade." UNDP-World Bank De Geyndt, Willy. 1991. Managing Health Expenditures under
Water and Sanitation Discussion Paper Series 9. World National Health Insurance: The Case of Korea. World Bank
Bank, Washington, D.C. Technical Paper 156. Washington, D.C.
Caldwell, J. C. 1986. "Routes to Low Mortality in Poor Diamond, Peter. 1992. "Organizing the Health Insurance
Countries." Population and Development Review 12(2): Market." Econometrica 60(6): 1233-54.
171-220. Doll, Richard. 1992. "Health and the Environment in the
CAMVAC (Centro de Apoyo a Mujeres Violadas). 1985. 1990s." American Journal of Public Health 82: 933-43.
"Carpeta de Información Básica para Ia AtenciOn Soli- Downing, A. J. 1991. "Pedestrian Safety in Developing
dana y Feminista a Mujeres Violadas." Mexico City. Countries." In Proceedings of the Vulnerable Road User: Inter-
Caplan, David. 1985. "Consumption, Production, World national Conference on Traffic Safety, New Delhi, January
Trade and Industry Structure." World Bank, Industry and 27-30. New Delhi: Macmillan India.
Energy Department, Washington, D.C. Drèze, Jean, and Amartya Sen. 1989. Hunger and Public Ac-
Cassen, Robert H., and others. 1986. Does Aid Work? New tion. WIDER Studies in Development Economics. Oxford,
York: Oxford University Press. U.K.: Clarendon Press.
Castro, E. B., and K. M. Mokate. 1988. "Malaria and Its Dunn, D. 1., M. L. Newell, A. E. Ades, and C. S. Peckham.1992. "Risk of Human Immunodeficiency Transmission
Socioeconomic Meaning: The Study of Cunday in Co-
lombia." In A. N. Herrin and P. L. Rosenfield, eds., Eco- through Breastfeeding." Lancet 340: 585-88.
nomics, Health and Tropical Diseases. Manila: School of Ea.o- Edwards, Sebastian. Forthcoming. "Latin America a De-
nomics, University of the Philippines. cade after the Debt Crisis." World Bank, Latin America
Chapman, R. S., J. L. Mumford, X. He, D. B. Harris, R. and the Caribbean Regional Office, Office of the Chief
Yang, and W. Jiang. 1989. "Assessing Indoor Air Pollution Economist, Washington, D.C.
Exposure and Lung Cancer Risk in Xuan Wei, China." El Batawi, M. A., and C. Husbumrer. 1987. "Epidemiologi-
Journal of the American College of Toxicology 8(5): 941-48. cal Approach to Planning and Development of Occupa-
Chen, B. H., C. J. Hong, M. R. Pandey, and K. R. Smith. tional I-Iealth Services at a National Level." International
1990. "Indoor Air Pollution in Developing Countries.' Journal of Epidemiology 16: 288-92.
World Health Statistics Quarterly 43: 127-38.

185


--- Page 200 ---
Elliott, Paul. 1988. "The Intersalt Study: An Addition to theEvidence on Salt and Blood Pressure, and Some Implica-Feachem, Richard G. A., Tord Kjellstrom, Christopher J. L.
tions." Journal of Human Hypertension 3: 289-98. Murray, Mead Over, and Margaret A. Phillips, eds. 1992.
The Health of Adults in the Developing World. Washington,
Elo, T. Irma. 1992. "Utilization of Maternal Health-Care Ser- D.C.: World Bank.
vices in Peru: The Role of Women's Education." Health Fenner, Frank, Donald A. Henderson, Isao Arita, Zdenek
Transition Review 2(1): 49-69. Jezek, and Ivan D. Ladnyi. 1988. Smallpox and Its Eradica-
Engle, Patrice L. 1991. "Mother's Work and Child Care in tion. Geneva: World Health Organization.
Pen-Urban Guatemala." Child Development 62. Foster, A. 1987. "Cataract Blindness in Africa." Ophthalmic
Enthoven, Alain C. 1988. Theory and Practice of Managed Coin- Surgery 18: 384-88.
petition in Health Care Finance. Amsterdam: North-Hol- Foster, Stanley 0., Deborah McFarland, and Meredith John.
land. Forthcoming. "Measles." In Dean T. Jamison, W. Henry
1989. "What Can Europeans Learn from Ameri- Mosley, Anthony R. Measham, and José-Luis Bobadilla,
cans?" Health Care Financing Review, annual supplement eds., Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries. New
(December) 49-63. York: Oxford University Press.
Enthoven, Alain, and Carol Vorhaus. 1992. "Teaching Note: Foster, Susan D. 1990. "Improving the Supply and Use of
The Physician Personnel Industry." Stanford University Essential Drugs in Sub-Saharan Africa." Policy, Research,
Graduate School of Business, Palo Alto, Calif. and External Affairs Working Paper Series 456. World
Esrey, S. A., J. B. Potash, L. Roberts, and C. Shiff. 1991. Bank, Population and Human Resources Department,
"Effects of Improved Water Supply and Sanitation on As- Washington, D.C.
cariasis, Diarrhoea, Dracunculiasis, Hookworm Infection, 1991. "Supply and Use of Essential Drugs in Sub-
Schistosomiasis, and Trachoma." Bulletin of the World Saharan Africa: Some Issues and Possible Solutions." So-
Health Organization 69(5): 609-21. cial Science Medicine 32(11): 1201-18.
Evans, John R. 1981. Measurement and Management in Medi- Free, Michael. 1991. "Health Technologies for the Develop-
cine and Health Services: Training Needs and Opportunities. ing World: Addressing the Unmet Needs." Program for
New York: Rockefeller Foundation. Appropriate Technology in Health, Seattle, Washington.
Evans, John R., Karen Lashman Hall, and Jeremy Warford. Frenk, Julio, J.-L. Bobadilla, J. Sepülveda, and M. Lopez
1981. "Health Care in the Developing World: Problems of Cervantes. 1989. "Health Transition in Middle-Income
Scarcity and Choice." Shattuck Lecture. New England Countries: New Challenges for Health Care." Health Pol-
Journal of Medicine 305 (November): 1117-27. icy and Planning 4:29-39.
Evans, Robert G., Morris L. Barer, and Roberta J. Labelle. Frenk, Julio, Javier Alagon, Gustavo Nigenda, Alejandro
1988. "Fee Controls as Cost Control: Tales from the Fro- Muñoz-del Rio, Cecilia Robledo, Luis A. Vaquez-Segovia,
zen North." Milbank Memorial Fund Quarterly 66(1): 1-64. and Catalin Ramirez-Cuadra. 1991. "Patterns of Medical
Ewbank, Douglas C., and Samuel H. Preston. 1990. "Per- Employment: A Survey of Imbalances in Urban Mexico."
sonal Health Behaviour and the Decline in Infant and American Journal of Public Health 81 (January): 123-29.
Child Mortality: The United States, 1900-1930." In John Fuchs, V R. 1978. "The Supply of Surgeons and the De-
Caldwell, Sally Findley, Pat Caldwell, Gigi Santow, mand for Operations." Journal of Human Resources 13
Wendy Cosford, Jennifer Braid, and Daphne Broers-Free- (supp.): 35-56.
man, eds., What We Know about Health Transition: The Cul- 1979. "Economics, Health and Post-Industrial So-
tural, Social, and Behavioural Determinants of Health. Health ciety." Milbank Memorial Fund Quarterly 57(2): 153-82.
Transition Series, Vol. 1. Canberra: Australian National Garber, Alan M., and Victor R. Fuchs. 1991. "The Expand-
University. ing Role of Technology Assessment in Health Policy."
Faiz, Asif, Christopher Weaver, Kumares Sinha, Michael Stanford Law and Policy Review (Fall): 203-09.
Walsh, and Jose Carbajo. Forthcoming. Air Pollution from Gelijns, Annetine C., and Ethan A. HaIm, eds. 1991. Medical
Motor Vehicles: Issues and Options for Developing Countries. Innovation at the Crossroads. Vol. 2: The Changing Economics
Washington, D.C.: World Bank and UNEP. of Medical Technology. Washington, D.C.: National Acad-
Faündes, Anibal, and José Guilherme Cecatti. 1993. "Which emy Press.
Policy for Caesarian Sections in Brazil? An Analysis of Gerdtham, Ulf-G., Jes SGgaard, Fredrik Andersson, and
Trends and Consequences." Health Policy and Planning Bengt Jonsson. 1992. "An Econometric Analysis of Health
8(1): 33-42. Care Expenditure: A Cross-Section Study of the OECD
Fauveau, V., and T. Blanchet. 1989. "Epidemiology and Countries." Journal of Health Economics 11: 63-84.
Cause of Deaths among Women in Rural Bangladesh." Gertler, Paul, and Jacques van der Gaag. 1990. The Willing-
International Journal of Epidemiology 18(1): 139-45. ness to Pay for Medical Care: Evidence from Two Developing
Feachem, R. C. 1988. "Epidemiology and Tropical Public Countries. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins University
Health: Current and Future Contributions with Particular Press.
Emphasis on the Role of the London School of Hygiene Ghana Health Assessment Project Team. 1981. "Quantita-
and Tropical Medicine." Transactions of the Royal Society of tive Methods of Assessing Health Impact of Different Dis-
Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 82: 790-98. eases in Less Developed Countries." International Journal
Feachem, Richard G., and Dean T. Jamison. 1991. Disease of Epidemiology 10(1): 73-80.
and Mortality in Sub-Saha ran Africa. New York: Oxford Uni- Glewwe, Paul. 1991. Are Rates of Return to Schooling Estimated
versity Press. from Wage Data Relevant Guides for Government Investments
Feachem, R. C., E. Burns, S. Cairncross, A. Cronin, P. in Education? Evidence from a Developing Coumitry Living
Cross, D. Curtis, M. Khalid Kahn, D. Lamb, and H. Standards Measurement Study Working Paper 76. Wash-
Southall. 1978. Water, Health and Development: An Inter- ington D.C.: World Bank.
disciplinary Evaluation. London: Tn-Med Books.

186


--- Page 201 ---
Godal, Tore. 1993. "Introduction." Tropical Disease Research, Hobcraft, J. N., ed., 1991. Proceedings of the Demographic and
Progress 1991-92. Eleventh Programme Report of the Health Surveys World Conference, Washington, D.C., 1991.
UNDP/World Bank/WHO Special Programme for Re- Vol. 2: 1157-82.
search and Training in Tropical Diseases. Geneva: World 1993. "Women's Education, Child Welfare and
Health Organization. Child Survival: A Review of the Evidence." Health Transi-
Gomes-Neto, J. B., and E. A. Hanushek. 1991. "The Causes tion Review 3(2).
and Effects of Grade Repetition: Evidence from Brazil." Hoddinott, John, and Lawrence Haddad. 1991. "Household
Working Paper 295. Rochester Center for Economic Re- Expenditures, Child Anthropometric Status and the Intra-
search, Rochester, N.Y. household Division of Income: Evidence from the Côte
Goodgame, R. W. 1990. "AIDS in Uganda: Clinical and So- d'Ivoire." Oxford University, Unit for the Study of Afri-
cial Features." New England Journal of Medicine 323: can Economics, Oxford, U.K.
383-89. Holly, John, and David Lee. 1992. "Costa Rica: Proyecto
Griffin, Charles C. 1992. Health Care in Asia: A Comparative Reforma Salud-Estudio de Financiamiento, Adquisición
Study of Cost and Financing. World Bank Regional and Sec- y Distribución de Farmacéuticos y Materiales Medicos."
toral Studies. Washington, D.C. Management Sciences for Health, Boston, Mass.
Grosh, Margaret E., ed. 1992. "From Platitudes to Practice: Hosken, Fran. 1988. "International Seminar: Female Cir-
Targeting Social Programs in Latin America." Vol. 1, Syn- cumcision-Strategies to Bring About Change." Women's
thesis. LAC Regional Studies Program Report 21. World International Network News 14(3): 24-37.
Bank, Washington, D.C. Hsiao, William. 1992. "Health Care Finance and Health In-
Grossman, Michael. 1975. "The Correlation between Health surance Mechanisms in Developing Countries." Paper
and Schooling." In Nestor E. Terleckyj, ed., Household presented at WHO Workshop on Health Economics, Ge-
Production and Consumption. New York: Columbia Univer- neva, June 25.
sity Press. Hughes, Robert G., Sandra S. Hunt, and Harold S. Luft.
Gutierrez-Fisac, Juan L., Enrique Regidor, and Elena Ronda. 1987. "Effects of Surgeon Volume and Hospital Volume
1992. "Occupational Accidents and Alcohol Consumption on Quality of Care in Hospitals." Medical Care 25(6):
in Spain." International Journal of Epidemiology 21(6): 489-503.
1114-19. Humphrey, J. H., K. P. West, Jr., and Alfred Sommer. 1992.
Halbwachs, Hans. 1992. "Need for Spares: Excuse or Real- "Vitamin A Deficiency and Attributable Mortality among
ity?" Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenar- Under-5-Year-Olds." Bulletin of the World Health Organiza-
belt (GTZ), Division of Health, Population, and Nutrition, tion 70(2): 225-32.
Eschborn, Germany. Hurst, Jeremy. 1992. The Reform of Health Care: A Comparative
Halstead, Scott, Peter Tugwell, and Kathryn Bennet. 1991."The International Clinical Epidemiology NetworkAnalysis of Seven OECD Countries. Paris: Organization for
(INCLEN): A Progress Report." Journal of Clinical Epide- Economic Cooperation and Development.
miology 44: 579-89. Huttly, S. R. A. 1990. "The Impact of Inadequate Sanitary
Halstead, Scott B., Julia A. Walsh, and Kenneth S. Warren, Conditions on Health in Developing Countries." World
eds. 1985. Good Health at Low Cost. Proceedings of a con- Health Statistics Quarterly 43: 118-26.
ference at Bellagio, Italy, sponsored by the Rockefeller 1DB (Inter-American Development Bank). 1988. "Summary
Foundation, April 29-May 3. of the Ex-Post Evaluations of Public Health Programs."
Handwerker, W. Penn. 1991. "Gender Power Difference 1DB, Operations Evaluation Office, Washington, D.C.
May Be STD Risk Factors for the Next Generation." Paper Ikegami, Naoki. 1992. "The Economics of Health Care in
Japan." Science 258 (23 October): 614-18.
presented at the 90th Annual Meeting of the American Ingram, Gregory. 1992. "Social Indicators and Productivity
Anthropological Association, Chicago, Ill. Convergence in Developing Countries." Policy, Research,
Hecht, Robert, Catherine Overholt, and R. Hopkins and External Affairs Working Paper Series 894. World
Holmberg. 1993. "Improving the Implementation of Cost Bank, Development Economics Research Advisory Staff,
Recovery for Health: Lessons from Zimbabwe." Health Washington, D.C.
Policy 25(1), July. Institute of Medicine. 1988. The Future of Public Health.
Heise, Lori. 1993. "Violence Against Women: The Missing Washington, D.C.: National Academy Press.
Agenda." In Marge Koblinsky, Judith Timyan, and Jill 1992. Emerging Infections: Microbial Threats to Health
Gay, eds., The Health of Women: A Global Perspective. Boul- in the United States. Washington, D.C.: National Academy
der, Cob.: Westview. Press.
Heller, Peter S., and Jack Diamond. 1990. International Com- International Monetary Fund. Various years. Government Fi-
parisons of Government Expenditure Revisited: The Developing nance Statistics. Washington, D.C.
Countries, 1975-86. Occasional Paper 69. Washington, Jacobs, William R., Jr., Raül G. Barletta, Rupa Udani, John
D.C.: International Monetary Fund. Chan, Gary Kalkut, Gabriel Sosne, Tobias Kiese, Gary J.
Hill, Kenneth, and Alberto Palloni. 1992. "Demographic Re- Sarkis, Graham F. Hatfull, and Barry R. Bloom. 1993.
sponses to Economic Shocks: The Case of Latin Amer-. "Rapid Assessment of Drug Susceptibilities of Mycobac-
ica." In Proceedings of the Peopling of the Americas Confer- terium tuberculosis by Means of Luciferase Reporter
ence, Veracruz, Mexico. Liege: International Union for the Phages." Science 260 (May): 819-22.
Scientific Study of Population. Jamison, Dean T Forthcoming. "Disease Control Priorities
Hlady, W. Gary, John V. Bennett, Aziz R. Samadi, Jahanara in Developing Countries: An Oveview." In Dean T. Jam-
Begum, Abdul Hafez, Aminul I. Tarafdar, and John R. ison, W. Henry Mosley, Anthony R. Measham, and José-
Boring. 1992. "Neonatal Tetanus in Rural Bangladesh: Luis Bobadilla, eds., Disease Control Priorities in Developing
Risk Factors and Toxoid Efficacy." American Journal of Pub- Countries. New York: Oxford University Press.
lic Health 82(10): 1365-69.

187


--- Page 202 ---
Jamison, Dean 1., and Joanne Leslie. 1990. "Health and Koss, Mary, Paul Koss, and Joy Woodruff. 1991. "Delete-
Nutrition Considerations in Education Planning: The Cost rious Effects of Criminal Victimization on Women's
and Effectiveness of School-Based Interventions." Food Health and Medical Utilization." Archives ofInternal Medi-
and Nutrition Bulletin (International) 12(3): 204-14. cine151: 342-47.
Jamison, Dean T., and Peter Moock. 1984. "Farmer Educa- Kutzin, Joseph, and Howard Barnum. 1992. "Institutional
tion and Farm Efficiency in Nepal: The Role of Schooling, Features of Health Insurance Programs and Their Effects
Extension Services, and Cognitive Skills." World Develop- on Developing Country Health Systems." International
ment 12: 67-86. Journal ofHealth Planning and Management 7: 51-72.
Jamison, Dean T., W. Henry Mosley, Anthony R. Measham, Laing, R. 0. 1990. "Rational Drug Use: An Unsolved Prob-
and Jose-Luis Bobadilla, eds. Forthcoming. Disease Control lem." Tropical Doctor20 (July): 101-03.
Priorities in Developing Countries. New York: Oxford Uni- Lancet. 1992. "Environmental Pollution: It Kills Trees, But
versity Press. Does It Kill People?" 340: 821-22.
Jarousse, Jean-Pierre, and Alain Mingat. 1992. "Options for Leslie, Joanne. 1987. "Interactions of Malnutrition and Diar-
Accelerated Development of Primary Education in the rhea: A Review of Research." In J. Price Gittinger, Joanne
Sahel." World Bank, Sahelian Department, Population Leslie, and Caroline Hoisington, eds., Food Policy: Inte-
and Human Resources Operations Division, Washington, grating Supply, Distribution, and Consumption. Baltimore,
D.C. Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press.
Javitt, Jonathan C. Forthcoming. "Cataract." In Dean 1. 1989a. "Women's Time: A Factor in the Use of
Jamison, W. Henry Mosley, Anthony R. Measham, and Child Survival Technologies." Health Policy and Planning
José-Luis Bobadilla, eds., Disease Control Priorities in Devel- 4(1): 1-16.
oping Countries. New York: Oxford University Press. 1989b. "Women's Work and Child Nutrition in the
Jeyaratnam, . 1985. "Health Problems of Pesticide Usage in Third World." In Joanne Leslie and Michael Paolisso,
the Third World." British Journal of Industrial Medicine 42: eds., Women, Work, and Child Welfare in the Third World.
505-06. Boulder, Cob.: Westview.
Jimenez, Emmanuel. 1987. Pricing Policy in the Social Sectors. Leslie, Joanne, Dean T. Jamison, and Philip Musgrove.
Washington, D.C.: World Bank. Forthcoming. "Protein-Energy Balance in the Diet and
Johnston, Ian. 1992. "Action to Reduce Road Casualties." Human Growth." World Bank, Washington, D.C.
World Health Forum 13: 154-62. Levin, Henry M., Ernesto Pollitt, Rae Galloway, and Judith
Jonsson, Bengt. 1989. "What Can Americans Learn from McGuire. Forthcoming. "Micronutrient Deficiency Disor-
Europeans?" Health Care Financing Review, annual supple- ders." In Dean 1. Jamison, W. Henry Mosley, Anthony R.
ment (December) 79-93. Measham, and José-Luis Bobadilla, eds., Disease Control
Kakwani, Nanak, Elene Makonnen, and Jacques van der Priorities in Developing Countries. New York: Oxford Uni-
Gaag. 1990. "Structural Adjustment and Living Condi- versity Press.
tions in Developing Countries." Policy, Research, and Ex- Lewis, Maureen A., and Clover Parker. 1991. "Policy and
ternal Affairs Working Paper Series 467. World Bank, Implementation of User Fees in Jamaican Public Hospi-
Population and Human Resources Department, Washing- tals." Health Policy 18: 57-85.
ton, D.C. Lindenbaum, S., M. Chakraborty, and M. Elias. 1985. The
Kanji, Najmi, Anita Hardon, Jan Willem Harnmeijer, Mas- Influence of Maternal Education on Infant and Child Mortality
uma Mamdani, and Gill Walt. 1992. Drags Policy in Devel- in Bangladesh. Special Publication 23. Dhaka: International
oping Countries. London: Zed Books Ltd., in association Center for Diarrhoeal Disease Research.
with the Danish International Development Agency Litvack, Jennie, and Claude Bodart. 1993. "User Fees and
(DANIDA). Improved Quality of Health Care Equals Improved Ac-
Katabira, E., and R. W. Goodgame. 1989. "AIDS Care: Diag- cess: Results of a Field Experiment in Cameroon." Social
nostic and Treatment Strategies for Health Workers." Science and Medicine 37(3).
Uganda Ministry of Health, Health Education Printing Lockheed, Marlaine E., Dean T. Jamison, and Lawrence
Unit, Kampala. Lau. 1980. "Farmer Education and Farm Efficiency: A
Kennedy, Eileen. 1992. "Effects of Gender of Head of Survey." Economic Development and Cultural Change29(1):
Household on Women's and Children's Nutritional Sta- 37-76.
tus." Paper presented at workshop on Effects of Policy Lockheed, Marlaine E., Adriaan M. Verspoor, and associ-
and Programs on Women, January 16. International Food ates. 1991. Improving Primary Education in Developing Coun-
Policy Research Institute, Washington, D.C. tries. New York: Oxford University Press.
Keusch, Gerald T., and Nevin Scrimshaw. 1986. "Control of Louat, Frederic, Margaret E. Grosh, and Jacques van der
Infection to Reduce Malnutrition." Reviews of Infectious Gaag. 1992. Welfare lmplicationsofFemale Headship in Jamai-
Diseases 8(2): 298-312. can Households. Living Standards Measurement Study
King, Elizabeth M., and M. Anne Hill. 1993. "Overview." Working Paper 96. Washington, D.C.: World Bank.
In Elizabeth M. King and M. Anne Hill, eds., Women's Luft, Harold S. 1978. Poverty and Health. Economic Causes and
Education in Developing Countries: Barriers, Benefits, and Pol- Consequences of Health Problems. Cambridge, Mass.:
icies. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press. Ballinger.
Koop, C. Everett. 1989. "Violence against Women: A Global Lutter, Chessa K., Jean-Pierre Habicht, Juan A. Rivera, and
Problem." Address to the Pan American Health Organi- Reynaldo Martorell. 1992. "The Relationship between En-
zation, Washington, D.C., May 22. ergy Intake and Diarrhoeal Disease in Their Effects on
Korte, R., Heide Richter, F. Merkle, and H. Gorgen. 1992. Child Growth: Biological Model, Evidence, and Implica-
"Financing Health Services in Sub-Saharan Africa: Op- tions for Public Health Policy." Food and Nut rition Bulletin
tions for Decisionmakers during Adjustment." Social Sci- 14(1): 36-42.
ence and Medicine 34(1): 1-9.

188


--- Page 203 ---
Mackay, Judith. 1993. The State of Health Atlas. New York: Mosley, W. Henry, and Lincoln Chen, eds. 1984. Child Sur-
Simon and Schuster. vival: Strategies for Research. New York: Population
Management Sciences for Health. 1992. International Drug Council.
Price Indicator Guide 1991. Boston, Mass. MRC (Medical Research Council). 1989. "The Neuro-
Mardones, Francisco, and Rafael Zamora. 1989. "Evalua- psychological Effects of Lead in Children: A Review of the
ciones Socio-econOmicas del Programa Nacional de Ali- Research 1984-1988." London.
mentación Complementaria: Que es lo que se ha Muller, 0., L. Barugahare, B. Schwartlander, E. By-
hecho?" Revista Chilena de Nut ricidn 17(3): 169-74. aruhanga, P. Kataaha, D. Kyeyune, W. Heckmann, and
Martorell, Reynaldo, Juan Rivera, Haley Kaplowitz, and Er- M. Ankrah. 1992. "HIV Prevalence, Attitudes and Behav-
nesto Pollitt. 1992. "Long-Term Consequences of Growth iour in Clients of a Confidential HIV Testing and Counsel-
Retardation during Early Childhood." Paper presented at ling Centre in Uganda." AIDS 6: 869-74.
the Sixth International Congress of Auxology, Madrid. Murray, Christopher, and Alan Lopez, eds. Forthcoming
Amsterdam: Elsevier Science Publishers. (a). "The Global Burden of Disease." Harvard Center for
Max, Emmanuel, and Donald S. Shepard. 1989. "Produc- Population and Development Studies, Cambridge, Mass.
tivity Loss Due to Deformity from Leprosy in India." In- Forthcoming (b). "Global Causes of Death Pattern
ternational Journal of Leprosy 57(2). in 1990." Lancet.
Maxwell, C. A., C. F Curtis, H. Haji, S. Kisumku, A. I. Murray, Christopher, Karel Styblo, and Annik Rouillon.
Thalib, and S. A. Yahya. 1990. "Control of Bancroftian Forthcoming. "Tuberculosis." In Dean T. Jamison, W.
Filariasis by Integrating Therapy with Vector Control Henry Mosley, Anthony R. Measham, and José-Luis Bo-
Using Polystyrene Beads in Wet Pit Latrines." Transactions badilla, eds., Disease Control Priorities in Developing Coun-
of the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 84: tries. New York: Oxford University Press.
709-14. Musgrove, Philip. 1986. "Measurement of Equity in
McGreevey, William. 1990. Social Security in Latin America: Health." World Health Statistics Quarterly 39: 325-35.
Issues and Options for the World Bank. World Bank Discus- 1988. "Is the Eradication of Polio in the Americas
sion Paper 110. Washington, D.C. Economically Justified?" Bulletin of the Pan American Sani-
McGuire, Judith, and Barry M. Popkin. 1990. "Beating the tary Bureau 22(1).
Zero-Sum Game: Women and Nutrition in the Third 1990. Fighting Malnutrition: An Evaluation of Bra-
World: Part 2." Food and Nutrition Bulletin (International) zilian Food and Nutrition Programs. World Bank Discussion
12: 3-11. Paper 60. Washington, D.C.
McKeown, Thomas. 1976. The Modern Rise of Population. 1993. "Relaciones entre Ia Salud y el Desarrollo."
London: Edward Arnold. BoletIn de la Oficina Sanitaria Panamericana 114(2): 115-29.
McPake, Barbara, Kara Hanson, and Anne Mills. 1992. "Ex- Natale, Joanne E., Jill G. Joseph, Randall Bergen, Ravilla D.
perience to Date of Implementing the Bamako Initiative: Thulasiraj, and Laxmi Rahmathullah. 1992. "Prevalence
A Review and Five Country Case Studies." London of Childhood Disability in a Southern Indian City: Inde-
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Department of pendent Effect of Small Differences in Social Status." In-
Public Health and Policy. ternational Journal of Epidemiology 21(2): 367-72.
Meerman, Jacob. 1980. "An Analysis in Development Per- National Research Council. 1989. Diet and Health: Implica-
spective of Bolivia's Largest Public Enterprises: COM- tions for Reducing Chronic Disease Risk. Washington, D.C.:
IBOL, YPFB, and ENAF." World Bank, Development Eco- National Academy Press.
nomics Department, Washington, D.C. Nazerali, Hanif. 1992. "ZEDAP: A Retrospective
Mesa-Lago, Carmelo. 1991. Social Security and Prospects for 1987-1992." Essential Drugs Monitor (Newsletter of WHO
Equity in Latin America. World Bank Discussion Paper 140. Action Programme on Essential Drugs and Vaccines) 13:
Washington, D.C. 6-8.
1992. "Health Care for the Poor in Latin America Needleman, H. L., A. Schell, D. Bellinger, A. Leviton, and
and the Caribbean." PAHO Scientific Publication 539. E. N. Allred. 1990. "The Long-Term Effects of Exposure to
Pan American Health Organization, Washington, D.C. Low Doses of Lead in Childhood: An 11-Year Follow-up
Mills, Anne, Patrick J. Vaughan, Duane L. Smith, and Iraj Report." New England Journal of Medicine 322(2): 83-88.
Tabibzadeh, eds. 1990. Health System Decentralization: Con- Newbrander, William. 1987. "Papua New Guinea's Expen-
cepts, Issues and Country Experience. Geneva: World Health diture on Hospitals: Policy and Practice since Indepen-
Organization. dence." Health Policy and Planning 2(3): 227-35.
Minhas, B. 5. 1991. Educational Deprivation and Its Role as a Nokes, C., S. M. Grantham-McGregor, A. W. Sawyer, E. S.
Spoiler of Access to Better Life in India. New Delhi: Indian Cooper, B. A. Robinson, and D. A. P. Bundy. 1992. "Mod-
Statistical Institute. erate to Heavy Infections of Trichuris trichiura Affect Cog-
Monteiro, Carlos Augusto. 1988. Sadde e Nutrição das Cri- nitive Function in Jamaican School Children." Parasitology
anças de São Paulo. São Paulo: Editora Hucitec. 104: 539-47.
Moses, S., F. A. Plummer, E. N. Ngugi, N. J. Nagelkerke, Norboo, T., M. Yahya, N. C. Bruce, J. A. Heady, and K. P.
A. 0. Anzala, and J. 0. Ndinya-Achola. 1991. "Contyol- Ball. 1991. "Domestic Pollution and Respiratory Illness in
ling HIV in Africa: Effectiveness and Cost of an Interven- a Himalayan Village." International Journal of Environmen-
tion in a High-Frequency STD Transmitter Core Group." tal Health 20: 749-57.
AIDS 5: 407-11. Nur, E. T. M., and H. A. Mahran. 1988. "The Effect of
Moses, S., F. Manji, J. E. Bradley, N. J. Nagelkerke, M. A. Health on Agricultural Labor Supply: A Theoretical and
Malisa, and F. A. Plummer. 1992. "Impact of User Fees on Empirical Investigation." In A. N. Herrin and P. L. Rosen-
Attendance at a Referral Centre for Sexually Transmitted field, eds., Economics, Health and Tropical Diseases. Manila:
Diseases in Kenya." Lancet 340: 463-66. School of Economics, University of the Philippines.

189


--- Page 204 ---
Office of Technology Assessment, U.S. Congress. 1993. Pollitt, Ernesto. 1990. Malnutrition and Infection in the Class-
Phar?naceutical R & D: Costs, Risks and Rewards. Report room. Paris: UNESCO.
OTA-H-522, February. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Govern- Popkin, Barry M. 1993. "Nutritional Patterns and Modes of
ment Printing Office. Change." Population and Development Review.
Oganov, Raphael G. 1992. "Cardiovascular Diseases in Population Information Program. 1992. Population Reports
Russia." Paper presented at Institute of Medicine meeting Series M (11): December.
in Washington, D.C., October. National Research for Pre- Population Reference Bureau. 1992a. "Adolescent Sexual
ventive Medicine, Moscow. Activity and Childbearing in Latin America and the Carib-
Omran, Abdel R. 1971. "The Epidemiological Transition: A bean: Risks and Consequences." Washington, D.C.
Theory of the Epidemiology of Population Change." Mu- 1992b. "Adolescent Women in Sub-Saharan Af-
bank Memorial Fund Quarterly 49(4): Part 1, 509-38. rica: A Chartbook on Marriage and Childbearing." Wash-
Over, Mead. 1991. Economics for Health Sector Analysis: Con- ington, DC
cepts and Cases. Economic Development Institute Technical Potts, Malcolm, Roy Anderson, and Marie-Claude Boily.
Materials. Washington, D.C.: World Bank. 1991. "Slowing the Spread of Human Immunodeficiency
Over, Mead, and Peter Piot. Forthcoming. "HIV Infection Virus in Developing Countries." Lancet 338 (Septem-
and Sexually Transmitted Diseases." In Dean T. Jamison, ber 7).
W. Henry Mosley, Anthony R. Measham, and José-Luis President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in
Bobadilla, eds., Disease Control Priorities in Developing Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research. 1983.
Countries. New York: Oxford University Press. "Securing Access to Health Care." Washington, D.C.
Over, Mead, Randal P. Ellis, Joyce Huber, and Orville Solon. Preston, Samuel H., and Michael R. Haines. 1991. Fatal
1992. "The Consequences of Adult Ill-Health." In Richard Years: Child Mortality in Late Nineteenth-Century America.
Feachem and others, eds., The Health of Adults in the Devel- Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press.
oping World. New York: Oxford University Press. Preston, Samuel H., Nathan Keyfitz, and Robert Schoen.
Palloni, Alberto. 1981. "Mortality in Latin America: Emerg- 1972. Causes of Death: Life Tables for National Populations.
ing Patterns." Population and Development Review 7(4): New York: Seminar Press.
623-51. Psacharopoulos, George. 1993. "Returns to Education: A
Pandey, M. R., J. S. M. Boleij, K. R. Smith, and E. M. Global Update." Policy, Research, and External Affairs
Wafula. 1989. "Indoor Air Pollution in Developing Coun- Working Paper Series 1067. World Bank, Latin America
tries and Acute Respiratory Infection in Children." Lancet and the Caribbean Technical Department, Washington,
1: 427-29. D.C.
Pauley, Mark V. 1986. "Taxation, Health Insurance, and Reinhardt, Uwe E. 1989. "The U.S. Health Care Financing
Market Failure in the Medical Economy." Journal of Eco- and Delivery System: Its Experience and Lessons for
nomic Literature 24 (June): 629-75. Other Nations." International Symposium on Health
Pelletier, David L. 1991. "Relationships between Child An- Care Systems, Taiwan, China.
thropometry and Mortality in Developing Countries: Im- 1991. "Health Manpower Forecasting: The Case of
plications for Policy, Programs and Future Research." Physician Supply." In Eli Ginzberg, ed., Health Services
Cornell Food and Nutrition Policy Program Monograph Research: Key to Health Policy. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard
12. Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. University Press.
Phelps, Charles E. 1992. Health Economics. New York: Har- Relman, Arnold S. 1993. "The Marketplace in Health Care
per-Collins. Reform: The Demographic Limitations of Managed Com-
Pierce, John P. 1989. "International Comparisons of Trends petition." New England Journal of Medicine 328 (January):
in Cigarette Smoking Prevalence." American Journal of 148-52.
Public Health 79(2): 152-57. Reyes, Edna A., and Oscar F. Picazo. 1990. "Health Man-
1991. "Progress and Problems in International power Employment and Productivity in the Philippines."
Public Health Efforts to Reduce Tobacco Usage." Annual Working Paper Series 90-19. Philippine Institute for De-
Review of Public Health 12: 383-400. velopment Studies, Manila.
Pinstrup-Anderson, Per, Susan Burger, Jean-Pierre Habicht, Richards, R., and T. Fulop in collaboration with J. Banner-
and Karen Peterson. Forthcoming. "Protein Energy Mal- man, G. Greenholm, J.-J. Guilbert, and M. Wunderlich.
nutrition." In Dean T. Jamison, W. Henry Mosley, An- 1987. Innovative Schools for Health Personnel: Report on Ten
thony R. Measham, and José-Luis Bobabdilla, eds., Dis- Schools Belonging to the Network of Community-Oriented Edu-
ease Control Priorities in Developing Countries. New York: cational Institutions for Health Sciences. Geneva: World
Oxford University Press. Health Organization.
Piola, Sérgio Francisco, and Solon Magalhaes Vianna. 1991. Riddell, Roger C. 1987. Foreign Aid Reconsidered. Baltimore,
"PolIticas e Prioridades do Sistema CJnico de Saüde- Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press.
SUS." World Bank, Latin America Country Department Robertson, Robert L., Andrew J. Hall, Paolo E. Crivelli, Ya-
1, Washington, D.C. moundow Lowe, Hazel M. Inskip, and Sharon K. Snow.
Pitt, Mark M., Mark R. Rosenzweig, and Nazmul Hassan. 1992. "Cost Effectiveness of Immunizations: The Gambia
1990. "Productivity, Health and Inequality in the Intra- Revisited." Health Policy and Planning 7(2): 111-22.
houshold Distribution of Food in Low-Income Coun- Rodgers, G. B. 1979. "Income and Inequality as Determi-
tries." American Economic Review 80: 1139-56. nants of Mortality: An International Cross-Section Analy-
Plitcha, Stacey. 1992. "The Effects of Woman Abuse on sis." Population Studies 33(2): 343-51.
Health Care Utilization and Health Status: A Literature Roemer, Milton I. 1991. National Health Systems of the World.
Review." Women's Health (Jacobs Institute of Women's Vol. 1: The Countries. New York: Oxford University Press.
Health) 2(3): 154-61.

190


--- Page 205 ---
Rogot, E., P. D. Sortie, and N. J. Johnson. 1992. "Life Ex- Serageldin, Ismail, A. Edward Elmendorf, and El-Tigani E.
pectancy by Employment Status, Income, and Education El-Tigani. Forthcoming. "Structural Adjustment and
in the National Longitudinal Mortality Study." Public Health in Africa in the 1980s." World Bank, Africa Techni-
Health Reports 107(4): 457-61. cal Department, Washington, D.C.
Romieu, Isabell. 1992. "Air Pollution and Pneumonia in Shepard, Donald S., R. L. Robertson, C. S. M. Cameron III,
Young Children." Centro Panamericano de EcologIa Hu- P. Saturno, M. Pollack, J. Manceau, P. Martinez, P.
mana y Salud, Mexico City. Meissner, and J. Perrone. 1989. "Cost Effectiveness of
Romieu, Isabel!, Henyk Weitzenfeld, and Jacobo Finkelman. Routine and Campaign Vaccination Strategies in Ecua-
1990. "Urban Air Pollution in Latin America and the Ca- dor." Bulletin of the World Health Organization 67(6): 649-62.
ribbean: Health Perspectives." World Health Statistics Shepard, Donald, Julia Walsh, Wolfgang Munar, Laura
Quarterly 43(3): 153-67. Rose, Rodrigo Guerrero, Luis F. Cruz, Guillermo Reyes,
Rozynski, Edward M., and Matthew S. Gallivan. 1992. Gail P. Orsolani, and Carlos Solarte. 1990. "Cost-Effec-
"The Global Medical Device Market Report." Health In- tiveness of Ambulatory Surgery in Cali, Colombia." Pa-
dustry Manufacturers Association, Washington, D.C. per presented at conference on Outpatient Hospitals:
Rublee, Dale A. 1989. "Medical Technology in Canada, Ger- Their Role in Health Care Systems in Developing Coun-
many, and the United States." Health Affairs (Fall):178-81. tries, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston,
Sagan, L. A., and A. A. Afifi. 1979. "Health and Economic November.
Development Factors Affecting Mortality." In G. T Good- Shim, Young-Hee. 1992. "Sexual Violence against Women
man and W. D. Rowe, eds., Energy Risk Management. Lon- in Korea: A Victimization Survey of Seoul Women." Pa-
don: Academic Press. per presented at conference on International Perspectives:
Sahn, David E. 1990. Malnutrition in Côte d'Ivoire: Prevalence Crime, Justice and Public Order, St. Petersburg, Russia,
and Determinants. Social Dimensions of Adjustment in June 21-27.
Sub-Saharan Africa Working Paper 4. Washington, D.C.: Smith, G. S., and P. Barss. 1991. "Unintentional Injuries in
World Bank. Developing Countries: The Epidemiology of a Neglected
Sanderson, Warren C., and Jee-Peng Tan. Forthcoming. Problem." Epidemiologic Reviews 13: 228-65.
"Population Issues in Asia: Context, Policies, and Pros- Smith, Kirk R. Forthcoming. "Combustion, Air Pollution,
pects." World Bank, Asia Technical Department, Wash- and Health in Developing Countries." Annual Review of
ington, D.C. Energy and Environment 18(20).
Schieber, George J., Jean-Pierre Poullier, and Leslie M. Smith, Kirk R., and Liu Youcheng. 1993. "Indoor Air Pollu-
Greenwald. 1992. "U.S. Health Expenditure Perfor- tion in Developing Countries." In Jonathan Samet, ed.,
mance: An International Comparison and Data Update." The Epidemiology of Lung Cancer. New York: Marcel
Health Care Financing Review 11(4): 9-15. Dekker.
Schmidt, Henk G., Victor R. Neufeld, Zohair M. Nooman, Smith, K. R., and S. Rodgers. 1992. "Interventions to Re-
and Toye Ogunbode. 1991. "Network of Community-Ori- duce Morbidity and Mortality from Pneumonia in Chil-
ented Educational Institutions for the Health Services." dren: Reducing Exposure to Household Biomass Smoke."
Academic Medicine 66: 259-63. London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
Schneider, Markus, Rudolf K-H. Dennerlein, Aynur Kose, Solon, Orville, Rhais M. Gamboa, J. Brad Schwartz, and
and Lea Scholtes. 1992. Health Care in the EC Member Alejandro N. Herrin. 1992. "Health Sector Financing in
States. Health Policy Monographs, Vol. 1. Amsterdam: Philippines." Health Finance Development Project.
Elsevier. HFDP Monograph 2. Government of the Philippines De-
Schroeder, Steven A. 1984. "Western European Responses partment of Health, Manila.
to Physician Oversupply-Lessons for the United States." Stamler, Jeremiah, Geoffrey Rose, Rose Stamler, Paul Elliot,
JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association 252 Alan Dyer, and Michael Marmot. 1989. "Intersalt Study
(July): 373-84. Findings: Public Health and Medical Care Implications."
1992. "Physician Supply and the U.S. Medical Hypertension 14: 570-77.
Marketplace." Health Affairs (Spring): 234-43. Stark, Evan. 1984. "The Battering Syndrome: Social Knowl-
Schultz, T. Paul, and Aysit Tansel. 1993. "Estimates of Wage edge, Social Therapy and the Abuse of Women." Ph.D.
Returns to Adult Health in Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana." dissertation. State University of New York, Binghamton,
Yale University, New Haven, Conn. Department of Sociology.
Schwab, L. 1987. "Cost Effective Cataract Surgery in Devel- Stark, Evan, and Anne Flitcraft. 1991. "Spouse Abuse." In
oping Nations." Ophthalmic Surgery 12: 307-09. M. Rosenberg and Anne Finley, eds., Violence in America:
Schwartz, H., and D. W. Dockery. 1992. "Increased Mortal- A Public Health Approach. New York: Oxford University
ity in Philadelphia Associated with Daily Air Pollution Press.
Concentrations." American Reviews of Respiratory Disease Stephenson, Patricia, Marsden Wagner, Mihaela Badea, and
145: 600-04. Florina Servanescu. 1992. "Commentary: The Public
Scrimshaw, Nevin S. 1986. "Consequences of Hunger for Health Consequences of Restricted Induced Abortion-
Individuals and Society." In Barry R. Bloom, ed., Proceed- Lessons from Romania." American Journal of Public Health
ings from the Symposium on the Biomedical Aspects of World 82(10): 1328-31.
Famine. Federation Proceedings (Federation of American So- Strauss, John, Paul Gertler, Omar Rahman, and Kristin Fox.
cieties for Experimental Biology) 45(10): 2421-26. 1992. "Gender and Life-Cycle Differentials in the Patterns
Sen, Amartya R. 1981. Poverty and Famines: An Essay on Enti- and Determinants of Adult Health." Prepared for the
tlement and Deprivation. Oxford, U.K.: Clarendon Press. Government of Jamaica. RAND, Santa Monica, Calif.

191


--- Page 206 ---
Study Group for Global Environment and Economics. 1991. UNICEF and IMIP (lnstituto Materno-Infantil de Pernam-
Pollution in Japan: Our Tragic Experience." Environ- buco). 1992. Cuidados Basicos de Sadde em Comunidndes de
ment Agency, Office of Policy, Planning and Research, Baixa Renda. Recife.
Tokyo. UNICEF, WHO, and UNESCO. 1991. Facts for Life. New
Summers, Lawrence H. 1989. "What Can Economics Con- York.
tribute to Social Policy? Some Simple Economics of Man- United Nations. 1985. Socio-Economic Differentials in Child
dated Benefits." AEA Papers and Proceedings 79(2): 177-83. Mortality in Developing Countries. Population Study 97.
1992. "Investing in All the People." Policy, Re- New York.
search, and External Affairs Working Paper 905. World 1988. Mortality of Children under Age Five. New
Bank, Washington, D.C. York.
Summers, Lawrence H., and Lant H. Pritchett. 1993. "The 1990. World Population Prospects. New York.
Structural Adjustment Debate." American Economic Re- 1991. Demographic Yearbook. New York.
view Conference Proceedings, American Economic Asso- 1992. Child Mortality since the 1960s. New York.
ciation meeting, Anaheim, Calif. Forthcoming. The Health Rationale for Family Plan-
Tan, Jee-Peng, and Alain Mingat. 1992. Education in Asia: A ning: Timing of Births and Child Survival. New York.
Comparative Study of Cost and Financing. World Bank Re- U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 1992.
gional and Sectoral Studies, Washington, D.C. "Famine-Affected, Refugee, and Displaced Populations:
Tarlov, Alvin R. 1986. "HMO Enrollment Growth and Phy- Recommendations for Public Health Issues." Morbidity
sicians: The Third Compartment." Health Affairs Spring: and Mortality Weekly Report 41 (June 24-RR-13).
23-35. Van Doorslaer, Eddy, Adam Wagstaff, and Frans Rutten,
Thomas, Duncan. 1990. "Intra-Household Resource Alloca- eds. 1993. Equity in the Finance and Delivery of Health Care:
tion: An Inferential Approach." Journal of Human Re- An International Perspective. CEC Health Services Research
sources 25(4): 635-64. Series 8. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press.
Thomas, Duncan, Victor Lavy, and John Strauss. 1992. Pub- Victora, Cesar, and Fernando Barros. 1990. "Avaliacao Pre-
lic Policy and Anthropometric Outcomes in Côte d'Ivoire. Liv- liminar do Impacto da Pastoral da Crianca sobre Alguns
ing Standards Measurement Study Working Paper 89. Indicadores de Saüde e de Utilizacão de Servicos."
Washington, D.C.: World Bank. UNICEF, Brasilia.
Thomas, Duncan, John Strauss, and Maria-Helena Henri- Viravaidya, M., S. Obremskey, and C. H. Myers. 1991.
ques. 1990. "How Does Mother's Education Affect Child "The Economic Impact of AIDS on Thailand." Population
Height?" Journal of Human Resources 26(2): 183-211. and Community Development Association, Bangkok.
Tinker, Anne, and Marjorie Koblinsky. 1993. Making Mother- Vogel, R. J. 1989. "Trends in Health Expenditures and Reve-
hood Safe. World Bank Discussion Paper 202. Washington, nue Sources in Sub-Saharan Africa." Paper prepared in
D.C. conjunction with the World Bank Sub-Saharan African
Tomkins, Andrew, and Fiona Watson. 1989. Malnutrition and Health Policy Study, Washington, D.C.
Infection. Administrative Committee on Coordination! 1990. "Health Insurance in Sub-Saharan Africa: A
Subcommittee on Nutrition. Nutrition Policy Discussion Survey and Analysis." Policy, Research, and External Af-
Paper 5. New York: United Nations. fairs Working Paper Series 476. World Bank, Africa Tech-
Tomson, Gäran, and Göran Sterky. 1986. "Self-Prescribing nical Department, Washington, D.C.
by Way of Pharmacies in Three Asian Developing Coun- Waaler, Hans T. 1984. "Height, Weight, and Mortality: The
tries." Lancet 2(13 September): 620-21. Norwegian Experience." Acta Medica Scandinavica 679:
Torrance, G. W. 1986. "Measurement of Health State Util- 3-56.
ities for Economic Appraisal." Journal of Health Economics Walsh, Julia A. 1988. Establishing Health Priorities in the Devel-
5: 1-30. oping World. UNDP Division for Global and Interregional
Toubia, Nahid. 1993. "A Call for Global Action against Fe- Programmes. Boston, Mass.: Adams Publishing Group.
male Genital Mutilation." Women, Ink., New York. Walsh, Julia A., and Kenneth Warren. 1979. "Selective Pri-
TRRL (Transport and Road Research Laboratory). 1991. "To- mary Health Care-An Interim Strategy for Disease Con-
wards Safer Roads in Developing Countries: A Guide for trol in Developing Countries." New England Journal of
Planners and Engineers." Crowthorne, U.K. Medicine 301 (1 November): 967-74.
UNDP (United Nations Development Programme). 1993. Walsh, J. A., C. M. Feifer, A. R. Measham, and P. J. Gertler.
Human Development Report 1993. New York: Oxford Uni- Forthcoming. "Maternal and Perinatal Health Problems."
versity Press. In Dean T. Jamison, W. Henry Mosley, Anthony R. Mea-
UNICEF (United Nations Children's Fund). 1993. The State sham, and José-Luis Bobadilla, eds., Disease Control Priori-
of the World's Children 1993. Oxford: Oxford University ties in Developing Countries. New York: Oxford University
Press. Press.
Forthcoming. The Progress of Nations 1993. New Walter, Tomas, Manuel Olivares, and Eva Hertrampf. 1990.
York. "Field Trials of Food Fortification with Iron: The Experi-
UNICEF/Bamako Initiative Management Unit. 1990. The - ence in Chile." In Bo Lonnerdal, ed., Iron Metabolism in
Bamako Initiative: Reaching Health Goals through Strength- Infants. Boca Raton, Fla.: CRC Press.
ened Services Delivery. New York. Wasserman, Jeffrey, Willard G. Manning, Joseph P. New-
1992. "Progress Report and Recommendation on house, and John D. Winkler. 1991. "The Effects of Excise
the Bamako Initiative," presented to the UNICEF Execu- Taxes and Regulations on Cigarette Smoking." Journal of
tive Board, 1992 session. New York. Health Economics 19: 43-64.
Wegman, David H. 1992. "The Potential Impact of Epidem-
iology on the Prevention of Occupational Disease." A,ner-
ican Journal of Public Health 82: 944-54.

192


--- Page 207 ---
Weisbrod, Burton A. 1991. "The Health Care Quadrilemma: Various years. "Health Equipment Management:
An Essay on Technological Change, Insurance, Quality of A World Health Organization Newsletter." (English
Care, and Cost Containment." Journal of Economic Lit era- only.) Division of Strengthening of Health Services
ture 29 (june): 523-52. (SHS), Geneva.
Welch, W. Pete, Mark E. Miller, H. Gilbert Welch, Elliott WHO Global Programme on AIDS. 1993a. "The Costs of
Fisher, and John E. Wennberg. 1993. "Geographic Varia- HIV/AIDS Prevention Strategies in Developing Coun-
tion in Expenditures for Physicians' Services in the United tries." GPA/Dir/93.2. Geneva.
States." New England Journal of Medicine 328:9: 621-27. 1993b. "Statement from the Consultation on Test-
Werner, David. 1987. Disabled Village Children: A Guide for ing and Counseling for HIV Infection 1992." WHO/CPA!
Community Health Workers, Rehabilitation Workers, and Fain,- Inf/93.2. Geneva.
lies. Palo Alto, Calif.: Hesperian Foundation. WHO/UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme).
Whitfield, R., Jr. 1987. "Dealing with Cataract Blindness- 1992. Urban Air Pollution in Megacities of the World. Oxford,
Part III: Paramedical Cataract Surgery in Africa." Ophthal- U.K.: Blackwell Reference.
mic Surgery 18: 765-67. Wilkinson, R. G. 1992. "Income Distribution and Life Ex-
WHO (World Health Organization). 1977. International Clas- pectancy." British Medical Journal 304 (January): 165-68.
sification of Diseases. Ninth Revision. Geneva. Woodward, David. 1992. Debt, Adjustment and Poverty in De-
1988a. Estimating Drug Requirements: A Practical veloping Countries. Vol. 1: National and International Dimen-
Manual. Action Programme on Essential Drugs and Vac- sions of Debt and Adjustment in Developing Countries. Vol. 2:
cines. Geneva. The Impact of Debt and Adjustment at the Household Level in
1988b. Guidelines for Developing National Drug Poli- Developing Countries. London: Pinter Publishers in associa-
cies. Geneva. tion with Save the Children.
1988c. The World Drug Situation. Geneva. World Bank. 1980. World Development Report 1980. New York:
1989a. New Approaches to Improve Road Safety. Tech- Oxford University Press.
nical Report Series 781. Geneva. 1984a. China: The Health Sector. A World Bank
1989b. World Health Statistical Annual. Geneva. Country Study. Washington, D.C.
Care Reform in Countries of Central and Eastern Eu-1991a. "Organization and Financing of HealthOxford University Press.1984b. World Development Report 1984. New York:

rope." Report by WHO Task Force on Health Develop- 1987. Financing Health Services in Developing Coun-
ment in Countries of Central and Eastern Europe for a tries: An Agenda for Reform. A World Bank Policy Study.
meeting at the World Health Organization, April 22-26, Washington, D.C.
Geneva. 1988. Education in Sub-Saharan Africa: Policies for
1991b. "Programme on Substance Abuse: Inter- Adjustment, Revitalization, and Expansion. A World Bank
Regional Meeting on Alcohol-Related Problems, April Policy Study. Washington, D.C.
2-8, Tokyo." Division of Health Services, Geneva. 1990a. Brazil: The New Challenge of Adult Health. A
1991c. "The Public/Private Mix in National Health World Bank Country Study. Washington, D.C.
Systems and the Role of Ministries of Health." Interregio- 1990b. World Development Report 1990. New York:
nal Meeting, Hacienda Cocoyoc, State of Morelos, Mex- Oxford University Press.
ico. Division of Health Services, Geneva. 1991. World Development Report 1991. New York:
1991d. Tropical Diseases: Progress in Research 1989- Oxford University Press.
1990. Tenth Programme Report of the UNDP/ World Bank/ 1992a. China: Long-Term Issues and Options in the
WHO Special Programme for Research and Training in Health Transition. A World Bank Country Study. Washing-
Tropical Diseases (TDR). Geneva. ton, D.C.
1991e. World Health Statistics Annual. Geneva. 1992b. Poland: Health System Reform. A World Bank
1992a. Acute Effects on Health of Smog Episodes. Country Study. Washington, D.C.
WHO Regional Publications, European Series 43. 1992c. Romania: Human Resources and the Transition
Copenhagen. to a Market Economy. A World Bank Country Study. Wash-
1992b. "Global Health Situation and Projections- ington, D.C.
Estimates." Division of Epidemiological Surveillance and 1992d. "Setting Environmental Priorities in Cen-
Health Situation and Trend Assessment, Geneva. tral and Eastern Europe." World Bank, Washington D.C.
1992c. "Implementation of the Global Strategy for 1992e. Adjustment Lending and Mobilization of Private
Health for All by the Year 2000, Second Evaluation and and Public Resources for Growth. Policy and Research Series
Eighth Report on the World Health Situation." March. 22. Washington, D.C.
Geneva. 1992f. World Development Report 1992. New York:
1992d. Our Planet, Our Health. Report of the WHO Oxford University Press.
Commission on Health and Environment. Geneva. 1992g. Zimbabwe: Financing Health Services. A
1992e. "Programme on Substance Abuse: Atlas World Bank Country Study. Washington, D.C.
Report." Geneva. -1993a. Effective Family Planning Programs. Washing-
1993. "Evaluation of Recent Changes in the Fi- ton, D.C.
nancing of Health Services." Report of a WHO Study 1993b. Housing: Enabling Markets to Work. A World
Group. Technical Report Series 829. Geneva. 'Bank Policy Paper. Washington, D.C.
Forthcoming. "Investing in Care for Persons with 1993c. Implementing the World Bank's Strategy to Re-
AIDS." Draft. Geneva. duce Poverty: Progress and Challenges. Washington, D.C.

193


--- Page 208 ---
1993d. Poverty Reduction Handbook. Washington, Yu, Seung-Hum, and Gerard F. Anderson. 1992. "Achiev-
D.C. ing Universal Health Insurance in Korea: A Model for
Forthcoming. Better Health in Africa. Washington, Other Developing Countries?" Health Policy 20: 289-99.
D.C. Zeckhauser, R., and Donald Shepard. 1976. "Where Now
World Bank Water Demand Research Team. 1993. "The De- for Saving Lives?" Law and Contemporary Problems 40:
mand for Water in Rural Areas: Determinants and Policy 5-45.
Implications." World Bank Research Observer 8(1): 47-70. Zinanga, Alex. 1992. "Development of the Zimbabwe Fam-
Yang, Bong-Mm. 1991. "Health Insurance in Korea: Oppor- ily Planning Program." Policy, Research, and External Af-
tunities and Challenges." Health Policy and Planning 6(2): fairs Working Paper Series 1053. World Bank, Population
119-29. and Human Resources Department, Washington, D.C.
Yoshikawa, Aki, Norihiko Shirouzu, and Matthew Holt. Zwi, A. 1992. "Injury in Developing Countries: A Review of
1991. "How Does Japan Do It? Doctors and Hospitals in a the Literature." London School of Hygiene and Tropical
Universal Health Care System." Stanford Law and Policy Medicine, Department of Public Health and Policy.
Review 3 (FaIl): 111-37.

194


--- Page 209 ---
Appendix A. Population and health data

Tables A.1 and A.2 present summary data on popula- vital registration data and official life tables were used
tion and GNP. Tables A.3 through A.9 provide popu- in combination with child mortality estimates aver-
lation and health data as a supplement to the main aged across the countries of each region. For China
text and to the data presented in the World Develop- mortality in 1990 was obtained by adjusting upward
ment Indicators. All the tables except A.1 and A.2 are the deaths by age recorded in the 1990 census, using
organized by demographic region as presented in Ta- an adjustment factor of 1.20 for males and 1.25 for
ble A.10. Economies are listed in ascending order of females; these adjustment factors were derived from
GNP per capita as estimated for mid-1991. Regional a comparison of the deaths by age and sex with the
totals include all the economies listed in Table A.10, population distribution in 1982 and 1990. For India
but country data are presented only for those econ- the 1988 Sample Registration System life table was
omies with estimated populations of 3 million or taken for 1990 without adjustment. For Latin America
more in mid-1990. Taiwan (China) is not presented and the Caribbean 1990 mortality was based on
separately in this appendix but is included in the esti- deaths and population by age as available in the Pan
mates for Other Asia and islands. Countries for American Health Organization (PAHO) data base for
which GNP per capita is uncertain are listed at the 1990. For Sub-Saharan Africa, Other Asia and is-
end of the regional groups and italicized. lands, and the Middle Eastern crescent mortality esti-
Although the data reported here are drawn from mates were based on country-specific estimates of
the most authoritative sources available, compara- child mortality, combined with indicators from a
bility is limited because of variation in data collection, small number of accurate life tables of the relation-
statistical methods, and definitions. Differences in ship between child and adult mortality. Fertility esti-
the reliability of the data are indicated by presenting mates by region for the period 1950 to 1990 were de-
in italics the figures that are deemed to be less termined by the 1990 age distributions and the
precise. mortality assumptions. Fertility estimates for the pe-
riod 1990 to 2050 were taken as weighted averages of
Table A.3 Population structure and dynamics the country-specific values used by Bos and others
1992. Estimates of migration were obtained indirectly
Population in 1990 by country and the percentages from United Nations, World Population Prospects 1990.
for under age 15 and for age 60 and over were taken Regional summaries for various columns of Table
from Bos and others 1992. Regional totals were ob- A.3total fertility rate, total live births, life expectancy,
tained by addition. The regional population totals median age at death, child mortality rate, and adult mor-
provide the basis for the regional projections carried tality rate by sexare taken directly from the regional
out for this Report for the period 1950 to 2050. The projections.
basis for the mortality assumptions for these projec- Country-specific values for total fertility rate and to-
tions varies by region. For the established market tal live births in 1990 are taken from projection data
economies and the formerly socialist economies of bases in Bos and others 1992. Mortality indicators are
Europe vital registration data from about 1990 were based on the child mortality estimates for 1960, 1975,
used; future mortality trends were then adapted to and 1990, which, for developing countries, are largely
agree with Bos and others 1992 for 2050. For the past, based on the special exercise described below.

195


--- Page 210 ---
Life expectancy at birth, e(0), is the number of years able used is the logarithm of the observed child mor-
that a person born in a given year could expect to live, tality rates. For estimates beyond the range of the
given the age-specific mortality rates for that year. Life observations, extrapolation is used; all estimates
expectancy in 1960 and 1990 and male and female adult based on extrapolation are shown in italics. For coun-
mortality rates for 1990 were derived from the child tries not included in Child Mortality since the 1960s,
mortality estimates for that year, combined with as- estimates of child mortality by period have been
sumptions about the relationship between child and taken from United Nations, Mortality of Children under
adult mortality based on the country-specific projec- Age Five (1988). For these countries, point estimates
tions in Bos and others 1992. The adult mortality rate for calendar years have been obtained by averaging
for a given sex is the probability of dying between estimates for adjacent five-year periods; thus, for ex-
ages 15 and 60, expressed per 1,000. Median age at ample, child mortality for 1960 for Ethiopia is ob-
death is the age below which half of all deaths occur in tained as the average of the estimated values for
a year. 1955-60 and 1960-65.
The perinatal mortality rate is the number per 1,000 Table A.4 Population and deaths by age group
births of perinatal deaths (late fetal deaths, occurring
at twenty-eight weeks of gestation or thereafter, and Population projections for the eight demographic re-
early neonatal deaths, occurring within the first gions were made for the period 1990 to 2030, and
seven days of life). Estimates of perinatal mortality reverse projections were made back to 1950. The
were derived from various data sources. Vital regis- starting point for these forward and reverse projec-
tration data were used for most of the established tions is the age and sex distribution of each region's
market economies and for Argentina, Chile, China, population, as reported in Bos and others 1992. For
Singapore, and Uruguay. Vital registration data for reverse projections, mortality assumptions are based
the republics of the former U.S.S.R. were corrected on child mortality estimates derived for this Report as
for underreporting of perinatal deaths by using a re- described above for child mortality rates, with addi-
gression model of perinatal mortality on postneonatal tional information derived from United Nations, Mor-
mortality based on a data series extending over about tality of Children under Age Five (1988); migration as-
forty-five years (1945-91) from forty countries with sumptions were obtained indirectly from United
complete vital registration. The remaining estimates Nations, World Population Prospects (1990). For the for-
drew on community- and hospital-based studies at ward projections, assumptions on fertility, mortality,
the district or other subnational level that were ex- and migration were chosen to agree with Bos and
panded to the national level using either percentage others 1992, starting from the levels used in the re-
of the population living in urban areas in 1990 or verse projection for 1985-90. The population projec-
percentage of births attended by trained health staff. tion follows the component projection model used by
Vital statistics for the established market economies the World Bank.
and the historical data base were obtained from the Table A.5 Mortality risk and life expectancy across
U.S. National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS). the life cycle
The child mortality rate is defined as the probability
of dying by exact age 5. Estimates for the period 1960 The figures in Table A.5 are derived from the regional
to 1990 were obtained from a special exercise carried population projections described in the note to Table
out jointly for the World Development Report and the A.4.
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the re- Table A.6 Nutrition and health behavior
sults of which will be published as UNICEF, The Prog-
ress of Nations 1993. (The methodology is described in Stunting is defined as low height-for-age; data are for
Hill and Yazbeck, background paper.) The sources of children ages 24-59 months. Wasting is defined as low
information are those given in United Nations, Child weight-for-height; data are for children ages 12-23
Mortality since the 1960s (1992), augmented by re- months. Moderate to severe stunting or wasting
cently available census and survey data. For each ob- means, respectively, height-for-age or weight-for-
servation of child mortality, there is a corresponding height more than 2 standard deviations below the
observation of the date to which the measure refers: median of the NCHS reference population. What
Point estimates of child mortality were obtained by matters is the excess over the prevalence in the refer-
fitting a line to the observations using weighted least ence population; the latter includes genetic effects as
squares, the independent variables being years (to well as malnutrition. Stunting is interpreted as mea-
account for trends) and the weights being based on suring chronic malnutrition and wasting as measur-
consensus judgment about the relative robustness of ing acute or short-term malnutrition, whether the
estimates derived from different types of data. In or- cause is inadequate food intake or infectious disease
der to focus on rates of change, the dependent van- or both. Mild or moderate malnutrition is not consid-

196


--- Page 211 ---
ered disease, but all degrees of malnutrition increase The incidence rate of tuberculosis has been esti-
the risk of death in children. Fully breastfed babies are mated using the most recent available information
defined as those given breast milk with or without recorded by governments and corrected for many de-
water, juice, or other liquids but no food or non- veloping countries with additional information from
breast milk before age 4 months. Women are classi- epidemiological studies. The data source is WHO's
fied as anemic when the blood hemoglobin level is Tuberculosis Programme.
below the WHO norm of 110 grams per liter. Table A.8 Health infrastructure and services
Tobacco consumption per year is an estimate of kilo-
grams of consumption of dry-weight tobacco per Doctor is defined to include only individuals with the
adult (age 15 and older). Where consumption in raw- professional degree of medical doctor. The definition
leaf equivalent is not available, data are derived by of nurse includes only registered nurses and regis-
converting data on consumption or sales of products. tered midwives. Hospital bed is defined as beds in
In some cases consumption is calculated from pro- clinics and hospitals; beds in long-term care facilities
duction of and net trade in leaf and products. Con- and nursing homes are excluded. Data sources are
sumption of tobacco for 1990 and 2000 was projected the World Bank, the Organization for Economic Co-
through a model that used assumptions on the operation and Development (OECD), PAHO, and
growth of private consumption expenditure to derive WHO.
per capita demand for tobacco. The demand func- Immunization data refer to DPT3three completed
tions and elasticities were based on analysis of recent doses of vaccine against diphtheria, pertussis
national family budget surveys and past time series of (whooping cough), and tetanusand to measles. The
consumption. Antismoking campaigns and other denominator for estimating coverage is the number of
preventive activities that have influenced the level of surviving infants age 1 year. The source of data is
tobacco consumption were considered for some WHO's Expanded Programme on Immunization.
countries through a trend factor, independent of in-
come and price. Table A.9 Health expenditure and total flows from
Health Organization (WHO), Demographic andSources for data on child nutrition are Worldexternal assistance

Health Surveys, Institute for Resource Development Health expenditure includes outlays for prevention,
of Macro Systems (IRD), and UNICEF; for anemia, promotion, rehabilitation, and care; population activ-
WHO; and for tobacco consumption, the Commodi- ities; nutrition activities; program food aid; and emer-
ties and Trade Division of the Food and Agriculture gency aid specifically for health. It does not include
Organization of the United Nations (1990). water and sanitation. Per capita expenditures and per
Table A.7 Mortality by broad cause, and incidence of capita aid flows are based on World Bank midyear
tuberculosis population estimates.
Total health expenditure is expressed in official ex-
Mortality rates are standardized for age by the direct change rate U.S. dollars. Data on public and private
method, using world population as the standard health expenditure for the established market econ-
population. Infectious diseases and reproductive health omies and Turkey are from the OECD. For other
problems include all deaths from infectious diseases countries, information on government health expen-
listed in the International Classification of Diseases, ditures is from national sources, supplemented by
Ninth Revision (1977), plus influenza and pneumonia, Government Finance Statistics (published by the Inter-
nutritional disorders and anemia, maternal causes of national Monetary Fund), World Bank sector studies,
death (including abortion), and perinatal causes of and other studies. Data on parastatal expenditures
death. Injuries include all violent causes, whether in- (for health-related social security and social insurance
tentional, unintentional, or unknown. Noncommuni- programs) are from the Social Security Division of the
cable diseases include all other causes of death. Deaths International Labour Office (ILO) and the World
of which the cause was coded as ill-defined are dis- Bank. Data are drawn from Murray, Govindara;, and
tributed among the three groups in proportion to the Chellaraj, background paper.
number of deaths in each group. The source is WHO Public sector expenditures include government
data derived from national vital statistics. Estimates health expenditures, parastatal expenditures, and
for economies with incomplete death registration foreign aid, making the figures comparable with
(less than 90 percent of deaths), high levels of non- those for OECD countries. Private sector expenditures
medical certification of causes of death (more than 15 for countries other than OECD members are based on
percent), or high proportions of deaths from ill-de- household surveys carried out by the ILO and other
fined causes (more than 20 percent) are considered sources, supplemented by information from United
unreliable and are shown in italics. Nations National Income Accounts, World Bank

197


--- Page 212 ---
studies, and other studies published in the scientific Countries (OPEC). Major international NGOs in-
literature. clude the International Committee for the Red Cross
Estimates for countries with incomplete data were (ICRC) and the International Planned Parenthood
calculated in three steps. First, where data on either Federation (IPPF). National NGOs were not included
private or public expenditures were lacking, the miss- because the available information was not separated
ing figures were imputed from data from countries by recipient country.
for which information was available. The imputation Information on ODA from bilateral and multilateral
followed regressions relating public or private expen- organizations was completed by data from the
diture to GDP per capita. Second, for a country with OECD's Development Assistance Committee (DAC)
no health expenditure data, it was assumed that the and Creditor Reporting System (CRS) and from the
share of GDP spent on health was the same as the Advisory Committee for the Coordination of Infor-
average for the corresponding demographic region. mation Systems (ACCIS). DAC has compiled annual
Third, if GDP was also unknown but population was aggregate ODA statistics, by sector, since 1960. The
known, it was assumed that per capita health spend- OECD's CRS, established in 1970, complements the
ing was the same as the regional average. DAC statistics by identifying contributions allocated
Estimates for development assistance for health are ex- by sector. The CRS data base is the most complete
pressed in official exchange rate U.S. dollars. Total aid source of information for bilateral ODA, but its com-
flows represent the sum of all health assistance for pleteness varies among OECD countries and from
health to each country by bilateral and multilateral year to year. ACCIS has kept, since 1987, a Register of
agencies and by international nongovernmental or- Development Activities of the United Nations that
ganizations (NGOs). Direct bilateral official develop- lists sources of funds and executing agencies for all
ment assistance (ODA) comes from the OECD coun- United Nations projects by sector.
tries. Sources of multilateral development assistance The estimates of development assistance in this ta-
include United Nations agencies, development banks ble were prepared by the Harvard Center for Popula-
(including the World Bank), the European Commu- tion and Development Studies as a background paper
nity, and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting for this Report.

198


--- Page 213 ---
Table A.1 Population (midyear) and average annual growth
Population (millions) Average annual growth (percent)
Count ry group 1965 1973 1980 1990 1991 2000 2030 1965-73 1973-80 1980-90 1990-2000 2000-2030
Low- and middle-income
economies 2,602 3,166 3,662 4,445 4,528 5,294 7,736 2.5 2.1 2.0 1.8 1.3
Low-income economies 1,776 2,169 2,507 3,066 3,127 3,686 5,459 2.5 2.1 2.0 1.9 1.3
Middle-income economies 826 997 1,155 1,379 1,401 1,608 2,273 2.3 2.2 1.8 1.5 1.2
Severely indebted 274 332 389 477 486 569 841 2.4 2.3 2.1 1.8 1.3
Sub-Saharan Africa" 233 288 351 474 489 635 1,313 2.7 2.9 3.1 3.0 2.4
EastAsiaandthePacific 1,009 1,240 1,399 1,641 1,667 1,891 2,442 2.6 1.7 1.6 1.4 0.9
South Asia 632 765 903 1,128 1,152 1,368 2,004 2.4 2.4 2.2 1.9 1.3
Europe and Central Asia . . 448 489 492 517 566 0.9 0.6 0.5
Latin America and the
Caribbean 249 305 358 438 455 516 721 2.6 2.4 2.0 1.7 1.1
MiddleEastandNorthAfrica 114 141 173 236 244 315 600 2.8 3.0 3.2 2.9 2.2
High-income economies 671 725 766 817 822 864 920 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.2
OECD members 649 698 733 777 783 820 871 0.9 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.2
World 3,281 3,895 4,428 5,262 5,351 6,157 8,664 2.2 1.8 1.7 1.6 1.2
Note: Because of incomplete coverage, discrepancies between summed subgroup figures may occur.
Projections. For the assumptions used in the projections, see technical notes for Table 26 in the World Development Indicators.
Excludes South Africa.

Table A.2 GNP, population, GNP per capita, and growth of GNP per capita

1991 GNP 1991 1991 GNP
(billions of population per capita Average annual growth of GNP per capita (percent)
Country group dollars) (millions) (dollars) 1965-73 1973 -80 1980-90 1989 1990 1991
Low- and middle-income
economies 4,571 4,528 1,010 4.3 2.7 1.2 1.1 -0.1 -2.1
Low-income economies 1,097 3,127 350 2.5 2.6 4.0 2.9 2.9 2.1
Middle-income economies 3,474 1,401 2,480 . . . . 0.5 0.7 -1.0 -3.4
Severely indebted 1,130 486 2,320 5.2 3.4 -0.8 -0.6 -5.4 -2.5
Sub-Saharan Africa" 173 489 350 1.7 0.9 -1.3 0.5 -1.4 -0.6
East Asia and the Pacific 1,081 1,667 650 5.0 4.8 6.2 4.5 5.3 5.0
South Asia 372 1,152 320 1.2 1.7 3.2 2.9 3.3 -0.7
Europe 1,314 492 2,670 1.4 1.4 -2.7 -9.8
Latin America and the
Caribbean 1,065 445 2,390 4.6 2.2 -0.4 -1.1 -1.4 1.7
Middle East and North Africa 474 244 1,940 6.0 1.7 -2.5 -0.2 -0.2 -1.3
High-income economies 16,920 822 20,570 3.7 2.1 2.3 2.7 1.6 0.3
OECD members 16,463 783 21,020 3.8 2.1 2.3 2.7 1.6 0.1
World 21,464 5,351 4,010 2.8 1.3 1.2 1.6 0.5 -0.1
Note: Because of incomplete coverage, discrepancies between summed subgroup figures may occur.Projections. For the assumptions used in the projections, see technical notes for Table 26 in the World Development Indicators.

Excludes South Africa.

199


--- Page 214 ---
Table A.3 Population structure and dynamics

Population and fertility
General mortality Age.specific mortality rates
Total Adult mortality
Under 15 Total live births per Median Pen natal
Population, years old, 60 years and fert it it5 year, 1990 age at mortality rate, 1990
1990 1990 over, 1990 rate, (hundreds of Life expectancy at birth death, rate, Child mortality rate (ages 15-59)

Demographic region and economy (millions) (percent) (percent) 1990 thousands) 1960 1990 1990 1990 1961) 1975 1990 Male Female
Sub-Saharan Africa 510 1 46 w 5w 6.4 w 251.8 1 43 w 52 w 5 w 68w 251 w 212 w 175 w 381 w 322 w
Mozambique 16 44 5 6.4 7.2 39 43 2 75 280 280 280 490 421
Tanzania 25 47 5 6.6 11.7 42 49 5 71 242 202 165 379 335
Ethiopia 51 47 5 7.5 26.5 37 48 4 87 294 262 197 404 329
Uganda 16 49 5 7.3 8.5 44 47 4 85 224 173 185 424 367
Burundi 5 46 5 6.8 2.7 40 47 11 87 255 209 180 424 367
Chad 6 42 6 6.0 2.5 35 47 7 74 326 271 212 445 358
Madagascar 12 46 5 6.3 5.3 42 51 Il 76 250 200 170 389 333
Sierra Leone 4 43 5 6.5 1.9 34 38 2 72 391 375 360 503 436
Malawi 9 47 4 7.6 4.6 35 47 4 83 361 313 201 426 369
Rwanda 7 48 4 8.3 3.9 45 44 3 86 210 223 222 453 395
Mali 8 47 5 7.0 4.3 33 48 4 80 413 321 200 417 361
Burkina Faso 9 46 5 6.5 4.2 35 49 4 85 318 254 159 429 352
Niger 8 47 4 7.1 3.9 35 38 3 79 320 320 320 513 454
Nigeria 06 47 4 6.0 42.5 47 49 7 71 204 198 191 406 354
Kenya 24 50 4 6.6 11.1 46 59 15 77 203 139 83 315 259
Benin 5 48 5 6.4 2.2 35 50 6 69 307 228 170 387 316
Central Africa Rep. 3 42 5 5.8 1.3 35 55 15 64 332 209 132 346 288
Ghana 15 47 5 6.3 6.6 45 52 7 71 213 169 170 344 282
Togo 4 48 5 6.7 1.8 39 54 7 75 26.4 193 143 325 268
Guinea 6 46 4 6.5 2.7 35 44 2 76 347 297 268 452 395
Zimbabwe 10 45 4 5.0 3.6 52 62 26 55 159 120 58 269 216
Cdte d'lvoire 12 47 4 6.7 5.4 40 57 10 68 260 194 90 332 277
Senegal 7 47 4 6.5 3.4 35 50 15 73 303 265 156 397 340
Cameroon 12 46 6 5.9 4.8 40 57 16 68 265 194 125 316 256
South Africa 36 38 6 4.3 12.1 48 62 41 50 192 141 91 278 209
Somalia 8 46 5 6.8 3.8 36 45 4 70 294 262 214 443 390
Zaire 37 46 4 6.3 17.0 37 49 6 68 286 223 190 387 319
Sudan 25 46 5 6.3 11.2 46 57 13 78 203 152 104 267 234
Zambia 8 49 4 6.7 4.0 45 47 11 63 213 167 190 422 354
Angola 10 45 5 6.5 4.7 . 35 46 3 75 346 281 214 434 381
India 850 37 7 4.0 258.1 47 58 37 64 235 195 127 272 229
China 1,134 27 9 2.5 251.3 43 69 64 25 210 85 43 201 150
Other Asia
and islands 6831 37w 6w 3.3w 188.71 SOw 62w 42w 49w 182w 135w 97w 243w 177w
Nepal 19 42 5 5.7 7.6 44 56 12 90 279 202 135 312 243
Cambodia 8 35 5 4.6 3.3 45 50 30 85 218 239 174 347 274
Bangladesh 107 43 5 4.6 37.2 46 56 12 75 251 236 137 295 244
Lao PDR 4 44 5 6.7 2.0 44 50 8 85 232 209 171 345 280
Sri Lanka 17 32 8 2.4 3.5 58 72 73 19 140 69 22 158 92
Indonesia 178 36 6 3.1 45.9 46 59 47 40 214 151 111 278 212
Philippines 61 40 5 3.6 17.8 59 64 49 27 103 75 62 234 172
Papua New Guinea 4 41 5 5.1 1.4 47 52 22 43 204 185 169 374 327
Thailand 56 33 6 2.4 12.0 52 68 71 25 149 85 36 242 163
Malaysia 18 38 6 3.8 5.5 58 71 63 25 106 54 20 177 120
Korea, Rep. 43 26 8 1.8 6.9 53 72 74 10 133 29 10 149 67
Hong Kong 6 21 13 1.5 0.7 64 78 77 8 53 17 7 91 44
Singapore 3 24 8 1.9 0.5 65 74 76 8 48 16 8 135 64
Myanmar 42 37 6 3.9 12.7 43 61 41 50 234 153 101 256 187
VietNam 66 40 7 3.9 20.4 57 67 50 40 105 68 46 180 118
Korea, Dem. People's Rep. 22 28 7 2.4 4.7 53 70 71 20 133 55 31 179 84
Latin America and the
Caribbean 4441 36w 7w 3.3w 124.6 I 54 w 70w 55w 33w 161w 104w 60w 228w 163w
Nicaragua 4 46 4 5.4 1,5 50 62 13 35 191 149 106 283 264
Haiti 6 40 6 4.8 2.3 47 54 18 43 221 208 156 413 406
Honduras 5 45 5 5.3 2.0 49 67 23 39 203 126 62 220 162
Bolivia 7 43 5 4.9 2.6 43 60 13 37 251 205 125 330 269
Guatemala 9 45 5 5.5 3.6 49 64 23 40 205 152 84 287 227
Dominican Rep. 7 37 6 3.3 2.0 56 68 49 35 149 114 56 212 147
Ecuador 10 39 6 3.8 3.1 53 70 57 37 174 120 42 218 157
Peru 22 38 6 3.8 6.6 45 65 47 40 233 157 73 272 221
El Salvador 5 44 6 4.3 1.7 51 69 32 39 188 146 52 318 217
Colombia 32 35 6 2.7 7.9 58 73 66 33 132 88 21 200 109
Paraguay 4 41 5 4.7 1.5 64 70 42 37 92 70 37 261 210
Chile 13 31 9 2.6 2.9 55 73 69 14 155 68 20 214 112
Venezuela 20 38 6 3.6 5.7 67 72 62 26 78 59 26 196 105
Argentina 32 30 13 2.8 6.5 67 72 72 28 73 56 26 168 90
Uruguay 3 26 16 2.3 0.5 71 74 73 17 55 58 23 194 101
Brazil 150 35 7 3.3 40.4 52 66 57 35 179 110 69 250 182
Mexico 86 37 6 3.3 23.8 56 70 60 30 148 95 38 212 164
Puerto Rico 4 26 14 2.3 0.6 67 76 75 18 70 27 15 155 77
Cuba 11 23 12 1.9 1.9 71 76 77 17 49 34 12 134 95
200


--- Page 215 ---
Population and fertility
General mortality Ages pecif1 mortality rates
Total Adult mortality
Under 15 Total live t,irths per Median Pen natal
Population, years old, 60 years and fertility year, 1990 age at mortality rate, 1990
1990 1990 over, 1990 rate, (hundreds of Lifeexpectancyal birth death, rate, Child mortality rate (ages 15-59)

Demographic region and economy (millions) (percent) (percent) 1990 thousands) 1960 1990 1960 1975 1990 Male Female19901990
Middle Eastern crescent 5031 41w 6w 5.0 w 195.8 1 44 w 61 w 24w 46w 242w 174w 111 w 228w 174 w
Pakistan 112 44 5 5.9 47.1 49 56 7 65 222 163 139 296 263
Yemen, Rep. 11 49 5 7.7 6.1 33 49 4 60 378 270 183 334 327
Egypt 52 39 6 5.6 16.2 40 64 38 58 256 212 56 214 158
Morocco 25 41 6 4.6 8.7 45 62 41 45 215 174 71 214 183
Tajikistan 5 45 6 5.0 2.0 . . 65 22 37 . . 115 75 190 133
Jordan 3 44 4 5.5 1.3 5.4 69 35 40 145 85 34 138 93
Syrian Arab Rep. 12 48 4 6.5 5.5 47 66 23 45 199 98 44 157 121
Uzbekistan 21 42 6 4.0 6.6 . . 67 37 33 . . 67 60 225 135
Tunisia 8 38 6 3.7 2.3 41 67 58 40 245 140 45 166 136
Kyrgyzstan 4 38 9 3.7 1.3 68 64 31 63 53 268 131
Georgia 5 24 16 2.1 0.9 72 71 24 39 28 218 94
Azerbaijan 7 33 9 2.7 1.7 . . 69 66 30 . . 69 52 239 106
Turkmenistan 4 41 6 4.1 1.2 . . 64 48 41 . . 101 93 270 155
Turkey 56 35 7 3.5 15.9 47 65 52 45 217 172 94 175 107
Algeria 25 44 5 5.2 9.1 43 65 47 40 242 174 82 135 105
Armenia 3 30 11 2.4 0.6 . . 72 67 25 . . 43 32 195 100
Iran 56 44 5 6.3 25.1 42 63 18 56 234 164 64 174 124
Kazakhstan 17 32 10 2.8 3.7 . . 68 65 27 . . 48 39 291 131
Saudi Arabia 15 46 4 7.0 6.4 38 64 18 40 292 166 81 175 138
Israel 5 31 12 2.9 1.1 72 76 76 11 38 26 10 110 72
Afghanistan 20 45 4 6.9 9.8 34 40 2 75 358 314 307 421 421
Iraq 19 47 4 6.2 8.0 52 63 24 52 163 106 72 194 129
Libya 5 46 4 6.7 2.0 39 62 16 35 269 146 82 191 144
Formerly socialist economies
of Eumpe (FSE) 3461 23w 17w 2.2 w 52.9 1 66w 72w 72w 19w 68w 36w 22w 281w 112w
Romania 23 24 16 2.2 3.7 63 70 71 12 82 43 31 233 119
Poland 38 25 15 2.2 5.9 65 71 72 15 70 29 20 263 102
Bulgaria 9 20 20 1.9 1.1 67 73 73 11 62 29 21 217 97
Moldova 4 32 11 2.9 0.8 69 68 24 . . 51 32 271 153
Ukraine 52 21 19 2.1 7.5 72 73 22 . . 25 22 270 107
Czechoslovakia 16 23 17 2.0 2.2 70 72 73 10 32 23 13 243 98
Lithuania 4 30 16 2.0 0.6 72 73 20 . . 23 18 276 108
Hungary 11 20 19 1.8 1.3 68 71 73 15 57 33 20 305 133
Belarus 10 23 18 2.2 1.6 73 73 21 22 18 272 64
Russian Federation 148 24 17 2.3 23.5 71 71 22 . . 33 27 304 110
Albania 3 33 8 3.0 0.8 51 70 67 45 164 71 36 250 110
Yugoslavia" 22 23 15 2.1 2.8 59 71 71 16 113 47 28 195 94
Established market
economies (EME) 7981 19w 18w 1.7w 104.01 70w 76w 75w 9w 36w 21w 11w 147w 73w
Portugal 10 21 18 1.6 1.3 60 75 75 13 108 49 13 169 82
Greece 10 19 20 1.5 1.1 68 76 76 13 50 29 13 133 71
Ireland 4 27 15 2.2 0.6 70 74 75 10 35 20 10 186 98
New Zealand 3 23 15 2.0 0.6 71 75 75 7 26 18 11 159 86
Spain 39 20 19 1.5 4.4 68 76 75 10 56 22 10 148 79
United Kingdom 57 19 21 1.9 7.9 71 76 77 8 27 18 9 156 87
Australia 17 22 15 1.9 2.5 71 77 76 10 24 16 9 148 74
Italy 58 16 16 1.3 5.7 68 77 77 12 56 25 11 128 72
Netherlands 15 18 18 1.6 1.9 73 77 77 10 21 12 9 141 72
Belgium 10 18 21 1.7 1.2 70 76 77 10 38 19 11 156 75
Austria 8 18 20 1.5 0.9 69 76 77 8 47 24 10 162 76
France 56 20 19 1.8 7.6 70 77 78 9 33 16 9 159 66
Canada 27 21 16 1.8 3.9 71 77 76 8 33 16 9 146 65
United States 250 22 17 1.9 38.6 70 76 76 10 31 19 11 157 75
Germany 79 16 20 1.6 9.2 69 76 78 7 43 22 9 159 76
Denmark 5 17 20 1.6 0.6 72 75 77 9 25 12 10 162 90
Finland 5 20 18 1.8 0.7 63 75 76 8 27 11 8 168 86
Norway 4 19 21 1.9 0.6 73 77 78 8 22 12 10 140 68
Sweden 9 17 23 2.0 1.2 73 78 78 7 19 10 8 135 71
Japan 124 18 17 1.6 13.5 68 79 78 6 37 11 6 120 63
Switzerland 7 17 20 1.7 0.8 71 78 78 8 25 12 9 136 63
FSE and EME 1,1441 20w 18w 1.9w 156.8 I 69w 75w 74w 12w 46w 25w 15w 188w 86w
Demographically
developing group 4,1231 36w 7w 3.8 w 1,270.3 1 46 w 63w 39w 45w 226w 152w 106 w 250w 199 w
World 5,2671 32w 9w 3.4 w 1,427.11 53 w 65 w 55w 40w 195w 135w 96 w 234w 169 w

Note: In this appendix the demographically developing group includes the Sub-Saharan Africa, India, China, Other Asia and islands, Latin America and
the Caribbean, and Middle Eastern crescent regions. Regional totals and averages include relevant information for less populous countries as listed in
Table AiD, except for perinatal mortality.
Refers to former Czechoslovakia because disaggregated data are not yet available.
Refers to former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia because disaggregated data are not yet available.

201


--- Page 216 ---
Table A.4 Population and deaths by age group
Population (millions) Deaths (millions)
Demographic region and age group 1950 1980 1990 2000 2030 1950 1980 1990 2000 2030
Sub-Saharan Africa 179 376 510 724 1,628 4.4 6.2 7.9 9.3 117
0-4 32 69 95 139 206 2.3 3.3 4.0 4.8 3.4
5-14 46 111 140 205 392 0.4 0.5 0.7 0.7 0.6
15-59 93 179 252 348 945 1.1 1.5 1.9 2.1 3.7
60+ 9 17 23 32 85 0.6 0.9 1.3 1.7 4.0
India 358 684 850 1,003 1,357 8.1 9.1 9.3 9.7 11.8
0-4 55 97 117 111 102 4.4 3.9 3.2 2.5 1.0
5-14 84 168 197 223 202 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.2
15-59 198 378 477 593 870 1.6 1.9 2.3 2.6 2.9
60+ 20 42 59 76 182 1.5 2.7 3.3 4.0 7.7
China 547 988 1,134 1,296 1,610 15.2 7.7 8.9 9.1 13.9
0-4 76 97 118 116 105 6.0 1.4 1.1 0.8 0.3
5-14 108 253 187 240 232 1.3 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.1
15-59 322 566 728 808 927 4.5 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.2
60+ 41 73 101 132 346 3.4 3.7 5.4 5.8 11.3
Other Asia and islands 281 552 683 808 1,108 5.7 5.7 5.5 6.5 9.2
0-4 42 82 86 87 83 2.5 2.2 1.6 1.5 0.6
5-14 68 141 164 169 165 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.1
15-59 155 298 390 494 698 1.6 1.5 1.5 1.9 2.3
60+ 17 31 43 58 161 1.2 1.6 2.0 2.8 6.2
Latin America and the Caribbean 166 355 444 538 765 2.9 2.7 3.0 3.1 6.0
0-4 27 52 56 59 56 1.3 0.9 0.7 0.6 0.3
5-14 40 89 103 113 114 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
15-59 90 194 254 323 474 0.7 0.9 0.9 0.7 1.5
60+ 9 21 31 43 121 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.7 4.1
Middle Eastern crescent 148 382 503 667 1,240 3.9 4.7 4.4 5.6 7.6
0-4 24 62 81 102 130 2.0 2.1 1.8 2.1 1.2
5-14 35 99 127 173 252 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.2
15-59 79 201 266 353 748 1.0 1.2 0.9 1.4 1.9
60+ 10 20 29 39 110 0.7 1.1 1.4 1.8 4.3
Formerly socialist economies
of Europe (FSE) 269 324 346 361 395 3.1 3.2 3.8 3.7 4.3
0-4 27 27 27 25 26 0.7 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.0
5-14 50 49 54 51 50 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0
15-59 165 204 208 217 225 0.8 0.5 0.9 0.7 0.5
60+ 26 45 57 67 94 1.5 2.3 2.7 2.9 3.7
Established market economies (EME) 564 757 798 832 869 6.5 7.5 7.1 8.0 10.1
0-4 58 52 51 50 49 0.6 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1
5-14 96 117 104 104 99 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0
15-59 342 461 497 516 460 1.5 1.0 1.1 1.1 0.7
60+ 69 127 145 163 260 4.3 6.2 5.9 6.8 9.3
FSE and EME 832 1,077 1,144 1,194 1,267 9.6 10.7 10.9 11.7 143
0-4 85 79 78 75 75 1.3 0.5 0.2 0.2 0.1
5-14 146 166 158 156 149 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0
15-59 507 665 705 732 685 2.2 1.5 2.0 1.8 1.2
60+ 95 167 203 231 358 5.8 8.5 8.6 9.7 13.0
Demographically developing group 1,678 3,337 4,123 5,034 7,708 40.2 36.2 39.1 43.3 60.2
0-4 255 458 552 613 682 18.5 13.9 12.4 12.3 6.8
5-14 381 851 919 1,123 1,348 3.2 2.2 2.1 2.2 1.3
15-59 937 1,902 2,367 2,918 4,672 10.5 9.2 9.8 11.0 14.5
60+ 106 126 286 380 1,005 8.0 10.9 14.6 17.8 37.6
World 2,511 4,414 5,267 6,228 8,975 49.8 46.9 50.0 55.0 74.5
340 536 631 687 757 19.8 14.4 12.7 12.5 6.9
5-14 527 1,017 1,077 1,279 1,497 3.4 2.3 2.2 2.2 1.3
15-59 1,443 2,489 3,072 3,600 5,358 12.7 10.7 11.8 12.8 15.7
60+ 200 371 488 662 1,363 13.8 19.4 23.2 27.5 50.6

202


--- Page 217 ---
Table A.5 Mortality risk and life expectancy across the life cycle

Probability of dying (percent) Life expectancy at different
ages (years)
Demographicregionandagegroup 1950 1980 1990 2000 2030 Demographic region and age 1950 1980 1990 2000 2030
Sub-Saharan Africa Sub-Saharan Africa
0-4 28.6 19.9 17.5 15.2 7.9 0 39 49 52 55 64
5-14 6.2 3.7 3.1 2.7 1.3 5 50 56 58 59 64
15-59 47.9 36.6 34.5 30.6 21.5 15 43 48 50 51 55
60-75 58.0 51.5 49.4 47.7 42.1 60 13 15 15 15 17
India India
0-4 10.530.4 17.2 12.44.5 0 42 55 58 61 70
5-14 5.0 3.0 2.7 2.3 1.0 5 54 61 61 63 68
15-59 38.5 26.3 25.0 23.3 15.1 15 47 52 53 54 59
60-75 61.1 51.2 48.9 44.6 33.8 I 60 14 15 16 16 18
China China
0-4 31.5 6.7 4.3 3.6 1.61 0 38 63 69 71 77
5-14 6.3 1.2 0.8 0.6 0.3 5 47 64 67 69 73
15-59 53.4 21.6 17.5 15.3 9.7 15 40 55 58 59 63
60-75 65.2 43.5 41.5 34.8 23.0 60 12 17 18 18 20
Other Asia and islands Asia and islands
0-4 23.4 12.0 9.7 8.2 3.8 0 44 58 62 64 72
5-14 4.9 1.9 1.7 1.3 0.6 5 52 61 63 65 70
15-59 45.0 24.5 21.2 19.7 13.9 15 44 51 54 56 60
60-75 59.3 47.8 44.9 41.2 31.4 60 13 15 16 17 19
Latin America and the Latin America and the
Caribbean Caribbean
0-4 6.0 5.119.9 8.6 2.3 0 49 65 70 71 76
5-14 3.7 1.5 1.2 0.9 0.3 5 56 66 69 70 73
15-59 36.6 19.1 19.1 13.4 9.6 15 48 57 60 60 63
60-75 51.5 37.9 33.0 30.7 23.4 60 15 17 19 19 20
Middle Eastern crescent Middle Eastern crescent
0-4 30.1 15.0 11.1 9.4 r 0 38 56 61 63 71
5-14 6.8 2.5 1.9 1.5 0.7 5 49 60 63 65 69
15-59 50.1 26.5 20.1 19.3 14.0 15 42 52 55 56 60
60-75 59.2 46.7 42.0 39.4 31.0 60 13 15 17 17 19
Formerly socialist economies of Formerly socialist economies of
Europe (FSE) Europe (FSE)
0-4 12.8 3.0 2.2 1.9 0.9 59 71 72 74 78
5-14 2.4 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.1 5 63 68 69 70 74
15-59 22.3 20.2 19.7 13.3 8.9 15 54 58 59 60 64
60-75 54.8 38.9 36.3 32.8 22.1 60 16 18 18 19 21
Established market economies Established market economies
(EME) (EME)
0-4 6.0 1.01.7 1.1 0.6 0 65 74 76 77 81
5-14 1.0 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 5 65 71 72 73 77
15-59 20.7 11.4 10.7 9.3 6.4 15 55 61 62 63 67
60-75 43.1 31.1 27.6 24.9 16.5 60 17 19 20 20 22
FSE and EME FSE and EME
0-4 2.1 1.5 1.38.4 0.7 0 64 73 75 76 81
5-14 1.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 5 65 70 71 72 76
15-59 21.2 15.0 13.7 10.6 7.2 15 55 60 61 62 66
60-75 47.0 33.7 30.4 27.5 18.3- 60 17 19 19 20 22
Demographically developing . Demographically developing
group group
0-4 28.6 13.5 10.6 9.5 4.9 0 40 7159 63 65
5-14 5.7 2.6 2.2 1.6 0.8 5 50 62 64 66 69
15-59 46.7 26.7 23.5 21.9 15.3 15 43 53 55 56 60
60-75 60.3 46.7 43.8 40.4 32.6 60 13 16 17 17 19
World World
0-4 24.8 9.612.0 8.7 4.5 0 48 62 65 67 73
5-14 4.7 2.1 1.9 1.5 0.8 5 55 64 66 67 70
15-59 40.6 24.7 20.7 19.7 11.7 15 47 55 56 57 61
60-75 56.0 40.1 40.1 38.8 31.0 14 17 17 17 19

203


--- Page 218 ---
Table A.6 Nutrition and health behavior

Prevalence of
Percentage of children affected by: Percentage of anemia in pregnant Tobacco consumption per year
Stunting, 1980-90 Wasting, 1980-90 women, 1970s and1980s (percentage (kilograms per capita in adult
(ages 24-59 (ages 12-23 breastfed, 1985-90 below the norm for population)children fully

Region and economy months)a months)a (ages 0-3 months)a hemoglobin) a 1974-76 1990 2000
Sub-Saharan Africa 39w lOw 63w 41 w
Mozambique 58 0.5 0.4 0.4
Tanzania 80 0.8 0.6 0.6
Ethiopia 43 19 6
Uganda 45 2 76
Burundi 48 6 98 68
Chad 13 37
Madagascar 56 17
Sierra Leone 43 14 45
Malawi 61 8 49 0.4 6.4
Rwanda 34 1
Mali 24 11 82 65
Burkina Faso 28 11 24
Niger 38 23 47
Nigeria 43 9 61 43 o.4 o4 o.i
Kenya 32 5 48 57
Benin 55
Central Africa Rep. 67
Ghana 30 81 64
Togo 29 6 60 47
Guinea
Zimbabwe 56
Côte d'lvoire 20 17 34 1.3 1.0 1.0
Senegal 25 6 77 55
Cameroon 43 2 70 8
South Africa 53 10 28 2.3 1.4 1.1
Somalia 30 40 73
Zaire 27 3 4 42 0.8
Sudan 32 13 84 36
Zambia 59 10 72 34
Angola 29
India 65 27 88 0.8 0.8 0.9
China 41 8 25 1.6 2.6 2.9
Other Asiaand islands 53w 11w 58w 1.6w 1.7w 1.8w

Nepal 69 14 33
Cambodia
Bangladesh 0.9 1.0
Lao PDR 44 20 62
Sri Lanka 27 13 79 62 . . . .
Indonesia 67 9 45 74 1.0 1.4 1.6
Philippines 43 13 48 1.5 1.5 1.7
Papua New Guinea 47 10
Thailand 22 6 33 i.6 2.0
Malaysia 32 6 34 1.5 1.8 2.1
Korea, Rep. 18 2 2.4 2.9 3.5
Hong Kong 2.0 1.6 1.8
Singapore 16 18 6.3 3.4 3.2
Myanmar 50 11 58 3.0 3.0 3.1
Viet Nam 49 12 0.6 1.0 1.1
Korea, Dem. Peovle's Rev. 4.3 4.0 3.9
Latin America andthe Caribbean 26w 5w 41w 35w 2.0w 1.6w 1.7w

Nicaragua 22 0
Haiti 51 17 64
Honduras 34 2
Bolivia 38 2 75 36
Guatemala 57 13
Dominican Rep. 19 1 42 0.8 1.1 1.1
Ecuador 39 4 54 46
Peru 37 2 58 53
El Salvador 36 6 14 1.2 6.9
Colombia 23 1 40 24 1.9 2.0 2.3
Paraguay 17 0 63 1.9 0.9 0.9
Chile 10 1 20 1.3 0.9 1.0
Venezuela 7 4 29 1.8 1.5 1.7
Argentina 3.1 1.9 1.9
Uruguay 16
Brazil 29 6 34 i.i i.
Mexico 22 6 44 41 1.4 1.0 1.1
Puerto Rico
Cuba 1 4.8 4.5 5.0
204


--- Page 219 ---
Prevalence of
Percentage of children affected by: Percentage of anemia in pregnant Tobacco consumption per year
women, 1970s and (kilograms per capita in adult
Stunting, 1980-90 Wasting, 1980-90 children fully 1980s (percentage(ages 24-59 (ages 12-23 breastfed, 1985-90 below the norm forpopulation)
Region and economy months)a monfhs)a (ages 0-3 mont hS)a hemoglobin)a 1974-76 1990 2000
Middle Eastern crescent
Pakistan 50 9 25 57 1.4 1.7 1.9
Yemen, Rep. 15 15
Egypt 31 1 66 1.8 1.8
Morocco 25 4 66 46 1.3 1.7 1.9
Tajikistan
JordanSyrian Arab Rep. 20 3 32 5052

Uzbekistan
Tunisia 18 3 60 38
Kyrgyzstan
Georgia
Azerbaijan
Turkmenistan
Turkey 74 2:. 2i 2.3
Algeria 13 4 42 1.8 1.9 2.1
Armenia
Iran 55 23 28 o.
Kazakhstan
Saudi Arabia 24 1.5 20 21
Israel 25 2.1 2.4 2.4
Afghanistan 3.0 29
Iraq
Libya
Formerly socialist
economies of Europe (FSE)
Romania 2.0 2.0 2.0
Poland 16 3.4 3.5 3.7
Bulgaria 3.6 4.1 4.3
Moldova
Ukraine
Czechoslovakiab 23 20 2.5 2.6
Lithuania 29 16
Hungary
Belarus
Russian Federation
Albania 4 2.5 2.5 2.8
Yugoslavia'
Established market 15w 3.2w 2.4w 2.0w
economies (EME)
Portugal 1.3 1.9 2.0
Greece 24 3.2 3.0 3.3
Ireland 3.2 2.4 2.1
New Zealand 3 1 22 3.2 2.1 1.9
Spain 9 2.5 2.4 2.6
United Kingdom 2 19 2.6 1.9 1.6
Australia 8 2.9 2.0 1.7
Italy 2 1 10 2.2 1.9 2.0
Netherlands 18 3.8 3.0 2.7
Belgium 6 3.5 2.9 2.7
Austria 2.3 2.1 1.9
France 6 0 18 2.8 2.3 2.1
Canada 5 1 3.8 2.6 2.2
United States 2 2 17 3.8 2.6 2.2
Germany 12 3.2 2.3 2.1
Denmark 3.5 2.6 2.3
Finland 2.2 1.6 1.4
Norway 2.31.9 2.0 1.9
Sweden 1.5 1.3
Japan 4 3.53.7 2.4 1.9
Switzerland 2.9 2.3
FSE and EME 4w 3w 4w 2.9w 2.2w 1.8w
Demographically 1.7w 1.9w
developing group 46w 13w 47w 49w 1.4w
World 42w 12w 42w 1.7w 1.9w 1.9w
Each value refers to one particular but not specified year within the time period denoted.
Refers to former Czechoslovakia because disaggregated data are not yet available.
Refers to former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia because disaggregated data are not yet available.

205


--- Page 220 ---
Table A.7 Mortality, by broad cause, and tuberculosis incidence
Mortality rates by major cause of death, 1985-90
(deaths per 100,000 population, standardized for age) Annual incidence rate
Communicable diseases of tuberculosis, 1990
and maternal and Noncommunicable (per 100,000
Demographic region and economy perinatal causes diseases Injuries population)
Sub-Saharan Africa . 220 w
Mozambique 189
Tanzania 140
Ethiopia 155
Uganda 300
Burundi 367
Chad 167
Madagascar 310
Sierra Leone 167
Malawi 173
Rwanda 260
Mali 289
Burkina Faso 289
Niger 144
Nigeria 222
Kenya 140
Benin 135
Central Africa Rep. 139
Ghana 222
Togo 244
Zimbabwe 207Guinea 166
Côte d'Ivoire 196
Senegal 166
Cameroon 194
South Africa 250
Somalia 222
Zaire 333
Sudan 211
Zambia 345
Angola 225
India 470 761 97 220
China 117 6% 88 166
Other Asia and islands 201 w
Nepal 167
Cambodia 235
Bangladesh 220
Lao PDR . . . 235
Sri Lanka 232 459 194 167
Indonesia . 220
Philippines 280
Papua New Guinea 275
Thailand . 173
Malaysia . 67
Korea, Rep. 113 454 194 162
Hong Kong 71 354 28 140
Singapore 114 498 39 82
Myanmar 189
Viet Nam . . 166
Korea, Dem. People's Rep. . . . 162
Latin America and theCaribbean 193 w 494 w 95 w 92 w

Nicaragua 110
Haiti . . 333
Honduras . 133
Bolivia .. . . . . 335
Guatemala 595 523 113 110
Dominican Rep. 206 443 88 110
Ecuador 210 448 119 166
Peru 327 392 53 250
El Salvador 202 385 201 110
Colombia 67
Paraguay . . . . . 166
Chile 131 444 88 67
Venezuela 151 449 110 44
Argentina 107 530 59 50
Uruguay 98 519 67 15
Brazil . . . . . . 56
Mexico 168 490 102 110
Puerto Rico 78 447 59 8
Cuba 73 472 82 10

206


--- Page 221 ---
Mortality rates by major cause of death, 1985-90
(deaths per 100,000 population, standardized for age) Annual incidence rate
Communicable diseases of tuberculosis, 1990
Demographic region and economy perinatal causes diseases Injuries population)and maternal and Noncommunicable (per 100,000

Middle Eastern crescent ll6w 619w 72w 99w
Pakistan 150
Yemen, Rep. 96
Egypt 78
Morocco . . . . . . 125
Tajikistan 182 558 53 133
Jordan 14Syrian Arab Rep. . . . . . . 58
Uzbekistan 137 601 65 55
Tunisia . . . . . . 55
Kyrgyzstan 124 651 95 68
Georgia 69 591 56 36
Azerbaijan 110 595 46 47
Turkmenistan 216 737 68 72
Turkey 57
Algeria . . . . . . 53
Armenia 60 580 66 127
Iran . . . . . . 83
Kazakhstan 86 700 103 77
Saudi Arabia . . . . . . 22
Israel 64 444 53 12
Afghanistan 278
Iraq 111
Libya 12
Formerly socialist economies
of Europe (FSE) 52w 658w 94w 52w
Romania 93 685 65 70Poland 73 603 80 43

Bulgaria 73 619 64 30
Moldova 54 704 104 54
Ukraine 32 673 93 50
Czechoslovakiab 51 646 62 22
Lithuania 25 598 107 82
Hungary 55 690 90 38
Belarus 28 625 90 50
Russian Federation 47 704 115 56
Albania . 40
Yugoslaviac 87 559 68 30
Established market economies
(EME) 47 w 416 w 49 w 20w
Portugal 70 429 78 57Greece 51 393 48 12
New Zealand 50 487 58 10Ireland 57 526 39 18
United Kingdom 49 478 31 10Spain 45 410 42 49
Australia 31 424 48 6
Italy 38 425 39 25
Netherlands 40 416 36 9
Belgium 52 459 68 16
Austria 30 437 55 20
France 40 362 70 16
Canada 39 395 48 8
United States 54 447 58 10Germany 35 468 45 18
finland 43 450 76 15Denmark . . . . . . 7
Norway 52 399 53 8Sweden 41 397 46 7
Japan 51 306 41 42
Switzerland 0 . . 18
FSE and EME 49 w 488 w 63 w 29 w
Demographically developinggroup 253 w 692 w 94w 173 w

World 187 w 626 w 84 w 142 w
Each value refers to one particular but not specified year within the time period denoted.
Refers to former Czechoslovakia because disaggregated data are not yet available.
Refers to former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia because disaggregated data are not yet available.

207


--- Page 222 ---
Table A.8 Health infrastructure and services
Percentage of children immunized,
Doctors per Hospital beds age less than 1 year
1,000 Nurse-to- per 1,000 Third dose of
Demographic region and population doctor ratio, population,1985_90a DPTl990_91a Measles
economy 1988_92a 1988_92a 1990_91a
Sub-Saharan Africa 0.12 w 5.1 w 1.4 w 52 w 52 w
Mozambique 0.02 13.1 0.9 19 23
Tanzania 0.03 7.3 1.1 79 75Ethiopia 0.03 2.4 0.3 44 37
Burundi 0.06 4.3 1.3 83 75Uganda 0.04 8.4 0.8 77 74
Chad 0.03 0.9 . . 18 28
Madagascar 0.12 3.5 0.9 46 33Sierra Leone 0.07 5.0 1.0 75 74

Malawi 0.02 2.8 16 81 78
Rwanda 0.02 1.7 1.7 89 89
Mali 0.05 2.5 . . 35 40
Burkina Faso 0.03 8.2 0.3 37 42
Niger 0.03 11.3 . . 18 24
Nigeria 0.15 6.0 1.4 65 70
Kenya 0.14 3.2 1.7 36 36
Benin 0.07 5.8 . 67 70
Central Africa Rep. 0.04 4.5 0.9 82 82Ghana 0.04 9.1 1.5 39 39

Togo 0.08 6.2 1.6 73 61
Zimbabwe 0.16 6.1 2.1 89 87Guinea 0.02 4.3 0.6 41 39
Côte d'Ivoire 0.06 4.8 0.8 48 42Senegal 0.05 2.6 0.8 60 59
Cameroon 0.08 6.4 2.7 56 56
South Africa 0.61 4.5 4.1 67 63
Somalia 0.07 7.1 0.8 18 30
Zaire 0.07 2.1 1.6 32 31
Sudan 0.09 2.7 0.9 63 58
Zambia 0.09 6.0 . . 79 76
Angola 0.07 16.4 1.2 26 39
India 0.41 1.1 0.7 83 77
China 1.37 0.5 2.6 95 96
Other Asia and islands 0.31 w 3.0 w 1.8 w 81 w 78 w
Nepal 0.06 2.7 0.3 74 63
Cambodia 0.04 8.0 2.2 38 38
Bangladesh 0.15 0.8 0.3 87 83
LaoPDR 0.23 5.9 2.5 22 47
Sri Lanka 0.14 5.1 2.8 86 79
Indonesia 0i4 2.8 0.7 86 80
Philippines 0.12 3.1 1.3 88 85
PapuaNew Guinea 0.08 8.1 3.4 64 63
Thailand 0.20 5.5 1.6 69 60
Malaysia 0.37 3.9 2.4 90 79
Korea, Rep. 0.73 1.0 3.0 74 93
Hong Kong 0.93 4.5 4.2 83 42
Singapore 1.09 3.8 3.3 91 92
Myanmar 0.08 4.0 0.6 69 73
VietNam 0.35 4.9 3.3 85 85
Korea, Dem. People's Rep. 2.72 13.5 90 96
Latin America and theCaribbean 1.25w 0.5w 2.7w 71w 75w

Nicaragua 0.60 0.5 1.8 71 54
Haiti 0.14 0.8 0.8 41 31
Honduras 0.32 1.0 1.1 94 86
Bolivia 0.48 0.7 1.3 58 73
Guatemala 0.44 2.5 1.7 63 48
Dominican Rep. 1.08 0.7 2.0 47 69
Ecuador 1.04 0.3 1.7 89 54
Peru 1.03 0.9 1.5 71 59
El Salvador 0.64 1.5 1.5 60 53
Colombia 0.87 0.6 1.5 84 75
Paraguay 0.62 1.7 1.0 79 74
Chile 0.46 0.8 3.3 91 93
Venezuela 1.55 0.5 2.9 54 54
Argentina 2.99 0.2 4.8 84 99
Uruguay 2.90 0.2 4.6 88 82
Brazil 1.46 0.1 3.5 75 83
Mexico 0.54 0.8 1.3 64 78
Puerto Rico 2.55 . . 4.0 0 . .
Cuba 3.75 1.7 5.0 99 99

208


--- Page 223 ---
Percentage of children immunized,
Doctors per Hospital beds age less than 1 year
1,000 Nurse-to- per 1,000 Third dose of
Demographic region and population1988_92a doctor ratio,1988_92a population,1985_90a DPT1990_91a Measles1990_91a
economy
Middle Eastern crescent 1.04w 1.5w 2.9w 75w 74w
Pakistan 0.34 0.8 0.6 81 77
Yemen, Rep. 0.18 2.9 0.9 62 57
Egypt 0.77 1.2 1.9 86 89
Morocco 0.21 4.5 1.2 79 76
Tajikistan 2.71 2.8 10.6 89 89
Jordan 1.54 0.3 1.9 92 85Syrian Arab Rep. 0.85 1.2 1.1 89 84
Uzbekistan 3.58 2.9 12.4 57 81
Tunisia 0.53 2.7 2.0 90 80
Kyrgyzstan 3.67 2.8 12.0 78 94
Georgia 5.92 2.2 11.1 65 74
Azerbaijan 3.93 2.4 10.2 89 91
Turkmenistan 3.57 2.8 11.3 78 68
Turkey 0.74 1.5 2.1 72 66
Algeria 0.26 4.7 2.6 89 83
Armenia 4.28 2.5 9.0 88 92
Iran 0.32 1.1 1.5 88 84
Kazakhstan 4.12 3.0 13.6 84 94
Saudi Arabia 1.52 1.5 2.7 94 90
Israel 2.90 2.3 6.3 88 88
Afghanistan 0.11 0.8 0.3 .
Iraq 0.58 1.2 1.6 69 73
Libia 1.04 2.9 4.1 62 59
Formerly socialist
economies of Europe
(FSE) 4.07w 2.2w 11.4w 77w 86w
Romania 1.79 8.9 97 92
Poland 2.06 . . 6.6 98 94
Bulgaria 3.19 2.1 9.8 99 97
Moldova 4.00 3.0 7.8 87 95
Ukraine 4.40 2.7 13.6 78 88
Czechoslovakia' 3.23 2.4 7.9 99 98
Lithuania . . . . . . 80 92
Hungary 2.98 1.1 10.1 100 100
Belarus 4.05 13.2 90 97
Russian Federation 4.69 . 13.8 65 83
Albania 1.39 2.5 4.1 94 87
Yugoslaviac 2.63 1.9 6.0 79 75
Established market
economies (EME) 2.52 w 2.1 w 8.3 w 80 w 77 w
Portugal 2.57 0.8 4.2 95 96
Greece 1.73 1.6 5.1 54 76Ireland 1.58 4.7 3.9 65 78
New Zealand 1.74 0.1 6.6 81 82
United Kingdom 1.40 2.0 6.3 85 89Spain 3.60 1.1 4.8 73 84
Australia 2.29 3.8 5.6 90 68
Italy 4.69 0.6 7.5 95 50
Netherlands 2.43 3.4 5.9 97 94
Belgium 3.21 0.1 8.3 94 75
Austria 4.34 2.4 10.8 90 60
France 2.89 1.6 9.3 95 69
Canada 2.22 4.7 16.1 85 85
United States 2.38 2.8 5.3 67 80
Germany 2.73 1.7 8.7 80 90
Denmark 2.56 5.6 5.7 95 86
Finland 2.47 4.3 10.8 95 97
Norway 2.43 4.4 4.8 89 90
Sweden 2.73 3.4 6.2 99 95
Japan 1.64 1.8 15.9 87 66Switzerland 1.59 2.6 11.0 90 90

FSE and EME 3.09w 2.1 w 9.3 w 79 w 80 w
Demographicallydeveloping group 0.78w 0.9w 2.0w 80w 79w

World 1.34w 1.4 w 3.6 w 80 w 79w
Note: Regional totals and averages include relevant information for less populous countries, as listed in Table A. 10, except for the
indicator "percentage of children immunized."Each value refers to one particular but not specified year within the time period denoted.
Refers to former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia because disaggregated data are not yet available.Refers to former Czechoslovakia because disaggregated data are not yet available.

209


--- Page 224 ---
Table A.9 Health expenditure and total flows from external assistance

- -

- Development assistance for health
Total health expenditure Health expenditures as a Aid flows as a
(official exchange rate percentage of GDP Total aid flows percentage of
dollars) Public Private in dollars, Aid flows total health
Millions, Per capita, Total, sector, sector, 1990 per ca pita, expenditure,
Demographic region and economy 1990 1990 1990 1990 1990 (millions)a 1990 1990
Sub-Saharan Africa 12,080 t 24 w 4.5 w 2.5 w 2.0 w 1,251 t 2.5 w 10.4 w
Mozambique 85 5 5.9 4.4 1.5 45 2.9 52.9
Tanzania 109 4 4.7 3.2 1.5 53 2.1 48.3
Ethiopia 229 4 3.8 2.3 1.5 43 0.8 18.8
Uganda 95 6 3.4 1.6 1.8 46 2.8 48.4
Burundi 36 7 3.3 1.7 1.6 15 2.8 42.7
Chad 76 13 6.3 4.7 1.6 33 5.8 43.0
Madagascar 79 7 2.6 1.3 1.3 17 1.5 21.5
Sierra Leone 22 5 2.4 1.7 0.8 7 1.7 33.0
Malawi 93 11 5.0 2.9 2.1 22 2.5 23.3
Rwanda 74 10 3.5 1.9 1.6 29 4.1 39.5
Mali 130 15 5.2 2.8 2.4 36 4.3 27.7
BurkinaFaso 219 24 8.5 7.0 1.5 42 4.7 19.4
Niger 126 16 5.0 3.4 1.6 43 5.6 34.0
Nigeria 906 9 2.7 1.2 1.6 58 0.6 6.4
Kenya 375 16 4.3 2.7 1.6 84 3.5 22.3
Benin 79 17 4.3 2.8 1.6 33 7.0 41.8
Central Africa Rep. 55 18 4.2 2.6 1.6 20 6.5 35.8
Ghana 204 14 3.5 1.7 1.8 29 1.9 14.2
Togo 67 18 4.1 2.5 1.6 14 3.9 21.0
Guinea 106 19 3.9 2.3 1.6 20 3.5 23.8
Zimbabwe 416 42 6.2 3.2 3.0 42 4.2 10.0
Côte d'Ivoire 332 28 3.3 1.7 1.6 11 0.9 3.4
Senegal 214 29 3.7 2.3 1.4 36 4.9 16.9
Cameroon 286 24 2.6 1.0 1.6 38 3.3 13.4
South Africa 5,671 158 5.6 3.2 2.4 2 .
Somalia 60 8 1.5 0.9 0.6 27 3.5 45.6
Zaire 179 5 2.4 0.8 1.5 48 1.3 26.7
Sudan 300 12 3.3 0.5 2.8 39 1.5 13.0
Zambia 117 14 3.2 2.2 1.0 6 0.7 4.9
Angola . . 28 2.8
India 17,740 21 6.0 1.3 4.7 286 0.3 1.6
China 12,969 11 3.5 2.1 1.4 77 0.1 0.6
Other Asia and islands 41,752 t 61 w 4.5 w 1.8 w 2.7 w 594 0.9w 1.4w
Nepal 141 7 4.5 2.2 2.3 33 1.8 23.6Cambodia . . . 0 . . . . . . .
Bangladesh 715 7 3.2 1.4 1.8 128 1.2 17.9
LaoPDR 22 5 2.5 1.0 1.5 5 1.2 22.7
Sri Lanka 305 18 3.7 1.8 1.9 26 1.5 7.4
Indonesia 2,148 12 2.0 0.7 1.3 159 0.9 7.4
Papua New Guinea 142 36 4.4 2.8 1.6 7 1.8 4.9Philippines 883 14 2.0 1.0 1.0 69 1.1 7.8
Thailand 4,061 73 5.0 1.1 3.9 36 0.7 0.9
Malaysia 1,259 67 3.0 1.3 1.7 3 0.1 0.2
HongKong 4,060 699 5.7 1.1 4.6 . . .Korea, Rep. 16,130 377 6.6 2.7 3.9 32 0.2
Singapore 658 219 1.9 1.1 0.8 1 0.2 0.1
Myanmar . . . . . . . . . . 12 0.3
Viet Nam 157 2 2.1 1.1 1.0 25 0.4 15.9
Korea, Dem. People's Rep
Latin America and the Caribbean 46,660 105 w 4.0 w 2.4 w 1.6 w 591 1.3w 1.3w
Nicaragua 133 35 8.6 6.7 1.9 27 6.6 20.0
Haiti 193 30 7.0 3.2 3.8 33 5.1 17.0
Honduras 134 26 4.5 2.9 1.6 20 4.0 15.1
Bolivia 181 25 4.0 2.4 1.6 37 5.1 20.3
Guatemala 283 31 3.7 2.1 1.6 32 3.4 11.1
Dominican Rep. 263 37 3.7 2.1 1.6 11 1.5 4.1
Ecuador 441 43 4.1 2.6 1.6 31 3.0 7.0
Peru 1,065 49 3.2 1.9 1.3 29 1.4 2.7
El Salvador 317 61 5.9 2.6 3.3 44 8.5 13.9
Colombia 1,604 50 4.0 1.8 2.2 26 0.8 1.6
Paraguay 160 37 2.8 1.2 1.6 10 2.4 6.4
Chile 1,315 100 4.7 3.4 1.4 10 0.7 0.7
Venezuela 1,747 89 3.6 2.0 1.6 2 0.1 0.1
Argentina 4,441 138 4.2 2.5 1.7 11 0.3 0.2
Uruguay 383 124 4.6 2.5 2.1 5 1.7 1.4
Brazil 19,871 132 4.2 2.8 1.4 84 0.6 0.4
Mexico 7,648 89 3.2 1.6 1.6 65 0.8 0.9
Puerto Rico
Cuba 0.3

210


--- Page 225 ---
Total health expenditure Health expenditures as a Development assistance for health
(official exchange rate percentage of GDP Total aid flows percentage ofAid flows as a
dollars) Public in dollars, Aid flows total health
Demographic region and economy 1990 1990 1990 1990 1990 (mihions)a 1990 1990Millions, Per capita,Total,sector, Privatesector,1990 per capita, expenditure,

Middle Eastern crescent 38,%1 t 77 w 4.1 w 2.4 w 1.7 w 453 t 0.9 w 1.2w
Pakistan 1,394 12 3.4 1.8 1.6 76 0.7 5.4
Yemen, Rep. 217 19 3.2 1.5 1.7 25 2.2 11.6
Egypt 921 18 2.6 1.0 1.6 111 2.1 12.1
Morocco 661 26 2.6 0.9 1.6 20 0.8 3.0
Tajikistan 532 100 6.0 4.4 1.6 . . .
Jordan 149 48 3.8 1.8 2.0 18 5.9 12.4
Syrian Arab Rep. 283 23 2.1 0.4 1.6 20 1.6 7.1
Uzbekistan 2,388 116 5.9 4.3 1.6 . . .
Tunisia 614 76 4.9 3.3 1.6 18 2.3 3.0
Kyrgyzstan 517 118 5.0 3.3 1.6Georgia 830 152 4.5 2.8 1.7
Turkmenistan 459 125 5.0 3.3 1.7 2 0.5 0.4Azerbaijan 785 98 4.3 2.6 1.7 . . .
Turkey 4,281 76 4.0 1.5 2.5 23 0.4 0.5
Algeria 4,159 166 7.0 5.4 1.6 2 0.1 0.1
Armenia 506 152 4.2 2.5 1.7
Iran 3,024 54 2.6 1.5 1.1 2
Kazakhstan 2,572 154 4.4 2.8 1.7 .
Saudi Arabia 4,784 322 4.8 3.1 1.7 1 0.1
Israel 2,301 494 4.2 2.1 2.1 3 0.6 0.1
Afghanistan 53 2.6
Iraq 4 0.2
Libya .
Formerly socialist economies of
Europe (FSE) 49,143 t 142 w 3.6 w 2.5 w 1.0 w
Romania 1,455 63 3.9 2.4 1.5
Poland 3,157 83 5.1 4.1 1.0
Bulgaria 1,154 131 5.4 4.4 1.0
Moldova 623 143 3.9 2.9 1.0
Ukraine 6,803 131 3.3 2.3 1.0
Czechoslovakia1' 2,711 173 5.9 5.0 0.9
Hungary 1,958 185 6.0 5.0 0.9Lithuania 594 159 3.6 2.6 1.0

Belarus 1,613 157 3.2 2.2 1.0
Russian Federation 23,527 157 3.0 2.0 1.0
Albania 84 26 4.0 3.4 0.6
Yugoslavia' 4,512 205 3.0 4.0 1.0
Established market economies
(EME) 1,483,1% t 1,860 w 9.2 w 5.6 w 3.5 w
Portugal 3,970 383 7.0 4.3 2.7
Greece 3,609 358 5.5 4.2 1.3
Ireland 3,068 876 7.1 5.8 1.4
New Zealand 3,150 925 7.2 5.9 1.3
Spain 32,375 831 6.6 5.2 1.4
United Kingdom 59,623 1,039 6.1 5.2 0.9
Australia 22,736 1,331 7.7 5.4 2.3
Italy 82,214 1,426 7.5 5.8 1.7
Netherlands 22,423 1,500 7.9 5.7 2.2
Belgium 14,428 1,449 7.5 6.2 1.3
Austria 13,193 1,711 8.3 5.5 2.8
France 105,467 1,869 8.9 6.6 2.3
Canada 51,594 1,945 9.1 6.8 2.4
United States 690,667 2,763 12.7 5.6 7.0
Germany 120,072 1,511 8.0 5.8 2.2
Denmark 8,160 1,588 6.3 5.3 1.0
Finland 10,200 2,046 7.4 6.2 1.2
Norway 7,782 1,835 7.4 7.0 0.3
Japan 189,930 1,538 6.5 4.8 1.6Sweden 20,055 2,343 8.8 7.9 0.9
Switzerland 16,916 2,520 7.5 5.1 2.4
FSE and EME 1,532,340 t 1,340 w 8.7 w 5.4 w 3.4 w
Demographically developinggroup 170,115 t 41 w 4.7w 2.3 w 2.5 w 3,252 0.8 w 1.9 w

World 1,702,455 t 323 w 8.0 w 4.9 w 3.2 w
Note: Regional totals and averages include relevant information for less populous countries, as listed in Table A.10.
Aid flows are official development assistance and include only a small portion of private flows, that is NGO assistance.
Refers to former Czechoslovakia because disaggregated data are not yet available.
Refers to former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia because disaggregated data are not yet available.

211


--- Page 226 ---
Table A.10 Economies and populations by demographic region, mid-1990
(population in thousands)
Sub-Saharan Africa (49 economies) 510,271 Latin America and the Caribbean (continued)
Nigeria 96,203 Burkina Faso 9,016 Less than 3 million population
Ethiopia 51,180 Malawi 8,507 Costa Rica 2,807 St. Vincent 107
Zaire 37,320 Mali 8,460 Jamaica 2,420 French Guiana 92
South Africa 35,919 ZambiaSomalia 8,111 Panama 2,418 Grenada 91
Sudan 25,188 7,805 Trinidad and Tobago
Tanzania 24,517 Niger 7,666 Guyana 1,236 Antigua and Barbuda 79798 Dominica 72
Kenya 24,160 Senegal 7,404 Suriname 447 Aruba 66
Uganda 16,330 Rwanda 7,118 Guadeloupe 387 St. Kitts and Nevis 40
Mozambique 15,707 Guinea 5,717 Martinique 360 Cayman Islands 24
Ghana 14,870 Chad 5,680 Barbados 257 British Virgin Islands 13
Côte d'Ivoire 11,902 Burundi 5,427 Bahamas, The 255 Montserrat 12
Cameroon 11,739 Benin 4,740
Madagascar 11,673 Sierra Leone 4,136 Netherlands Antilles 189 Turks and Caicos Islands 9
Angola 10,012 logo 3,638 Belize 188 Anguilla 8
Zimbabwe 9,805 Central Africa Republic 3,035 St. Lucia 150 Falkland/Malvinas Islands 2
Less than 3 million population Virgin Islands (U. S.) 110

Liberia 2,561 Comoros 475 Middle Eastern crescent (34 economies) 503,075
Congo 2,276 Djibouti 427 Pakistan 112,351 Yemen, Rep. 11,282
Mauritania 1,969 Equatorial Guinea 417 Turkey 56,098 Tunisia 8,060
Namibia 1,780 Cape Verde 371 Iran 55,779 Azerbaijan 7,149
Lesotho 1,768 São Tome and Principe 117 Egypt 52,061 Georgia 5,462
Botswana 1,254 Mayotte 73 Morocco 25,091 Tajikistan 5,302
Gabon 1,136 St. Helena Algeria 25,056 Israel 4,659
Guinea-Bissau 980 Ascencion Uzbekistan 20,532 Libya 4,546
Gambia, The 875 Tristan da Cunha 0.3 Afghanistan 20,445 Kyrgyzstan 4,395
Swaziland 797 Iraq 18,914 Turkmenistan 3,669
Kazakhstan 16,746 Armenia 3,325
India 849,515 Saudi Arabia [4,870 Jordan 3,098
Syrian Arab Rep. 12,360
China 1,133,698 Less than 3 million population
Other Asia and islands (49 economies) 682,533 Lebanon 2,681 Gaza Strip 588
Indonesia 178,232 Nepal 18,916 Kuwait 2,143 Bahrain 503
Bangladesh 106,656 Malaysia 17,857 United Arab Emirates 1,592 Qatar 439
Viet Nam 66,312 Sri Lanka 17,002 Oman 1,554 Malta 354
Philippines 61,480 Cambodia 8,469 West Bank 1,088 Western Sahara 179
Thailand 55,853 Hong Kong 5,806 Cyprus 702
Korea, Rep. 42,797 Lao PDR 4,186 Demographically developing group (180 economies) 4,123,389
Myanmar 41,609 Papua New Guinea 3,915
Korea, Dem. People's Rep. 21,576 Singapore 3,003 Formerly socialist economies of Europe (14 economies) 346,237
Taiwan, China 20,313
Less than 3 million population Russian Federation 148,255 Hungary 10,553
Ukraine 51,860 Belarus 10,278
Mongolia 2,124 Kiribati 70 Poland 38,180 Bulgaria 8,823
Bhutan 1,433 Seychelles 68 Romania 23,199 Moldova 4,367
Mauritius 1,074 Marshall Islands 41 Yugoslavia 23,808 Lithuania 3,731
FijiReunion 744 American Samoa 39 Czechoslovakiab 15,662 Albania 3,250
593 Northern Mariana Islands 23
Macao 459 Cook Islands 19 Less than 3 million population
Solomon Islands 316 Trust Territory of the Pacific 18 Latvia 2,686 Estonia 1,583
Brunei 256 WaIlis and Futuna Islands 14
Maldives 214 Nauru 9 Established market economies (35 economies) 797,788
French Polynesia 197 Tuvalu 9
New Caledonia 165 Niue 3 United States 249,975 Greece 10,067
Western Samoa 165 Midway Island 2 Japan 123,519 Belgium 9,956
Vanuatu 151 Tokelau Island 2 Germany 79,484 Sweden 8,559
Guam 137 Wake Island 2 Italy 57,663 Austria 7,712
Fed. States of Micronesia 103 Johnston Island United Kingdom 57,395 Switzerland 6,712
Tonga 99 Pitcairn Island 0.1 France 56,440 Denmark 5,140
Spain 38,959 Finland 4,986
Latin America and the Caribbean (46 economies) 444,297 Canada 26,522 Norway 4,242
Brazil 150,368 Bolivia 7,171 NetherlandsAustralia 14,943 New Zealand 3,40517,085 Ireland 3,503
Mexico 86,154 Dominican Rep. 7,074 Portugal 10,354
Colombia 32,345 Haiti 6,472 Less than 3 million population
Argentina 32,293 El Salvador 5,213
Peru 21,663 Honduras 5,105 Luxembourg 378 Andorra 47
Venezuela 19,738 Paraguay 4,314 Iceland 255 Gibraltar 30
Chile 13,173 Nicaragua 3,853 Channel Islands 144 Liechtenstein 28
Cuba 10,617 Puerto Rico 3,530 Isle of Man 66 Monaco 28
Ecuador 10,284 Uruguay 3,094 Bermuda 59 San Marino 23
Guatemala 9,197 (Continued in next column) Greenland 56 St. Pierre and Miquelon 6
Faeroe Islands 48 Holy See

FSE and EME (49 economies) 1,144,025

World (229 economies) 5,267,414
Refers to former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia because disaggregated data are not yet available.
Refers to former Czechoslovakia because disaggregated data are not yet available.
212


--- Page 227 ---
Appendix B. The global burden of disease, 1990

The World Bank and the World Health Organization age 40 is assumed to represent a stream of lost life
have undertaken a joint exercise for this Report that that is equal to the female expectation of life at age 40,
quantifies the impact in loss of healthy life from about or 43 years. Longer streams of life lost as a result of a
100 diseases and injuries in 1990 (Murray and Lopez, female death as compared with a male death at any
background paper). The global burden of disease given age seem to be justified by data for high-income
(GBD) combines the loss of life from premature death groups in low-mortality populations. These data
in 1990 with the loss of healthy life from disability. show that women's expectations of life at birth are
The GBD is measured in units of disability-adjusted still two to three years higher than males'.
life years (DALYs) except in Table B.8, which presents Value of a healthy year of life lived at each age. Most
only deaths. Disease and injury categories are based societies attach more importance to a year of life lived
on the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Re- by a young or middle-aged adult than to a year of life
vision (1977). The criterion for selecting the diseases lived by a child or an elderly person. The relative
and injuries studied was the expected magnitude of value of a year of life at each age has been modeled
the burden within a specific age group. The selected for this exercise as an exponential function of the
diseases and injuries account for more than 90 per- form 1w exp(-Ba), where a is age and B is equal to 0.04.
cent of premature deaths and probably for a similar This function rises quickly from zero at birth to a peak
proportion of the burden attributable to disability. at age 25 and then declines asymptotically toward
The tables presented in this appendix include sub- zero. The constant k is chosen so that the total num-
totals for different disease groups; the numbers pre- ber of DALYs is the same as though uniform age
sented in the subtotals include DALYs lost as a result weights had been used (see Box figure 1.3). It is im-
of the specified diseases and, in some cases, several portant to note that while the first year of life receives
residual conditions. a very low weight, the life of a newborn is valued
Calculation of the disease burden is based on sev- according to the weights of all the years he or she is
eral assumptions, some of which involve decisions expected to live, that is, according to the sum of the
about ethical values or social preferences. The key function over future years. In the absence of dis-
choices are the potential years of life lost as a result of counting, therefore, the greatest loss of DALYs from
a death at a given age; the relative value of a year of premature death occurs from infant deaths. The in-
healthy life lived at different ages; the discount rate, troduction of discounting means that the greatest loss
or extent of time preference for human life and from premature death occurs in early adulthood, but
health; and the disability weights used to convert life that loss is only slightly greater than the loss from an
lived with a disability to a common measure with infant death. Largely because loss of life is valued
premature death. The choices are described below. A according to the future stream of age-specific age
full presentation of the methodology will appear in weights and not just the weight for one year, the
Murray and Lopez (forthcoming). results of the analysis are not very sensitive to the
Duration of life lost due to a death at each age. The introduction of nonuniform age weights.
number of years of life lost as a result of a death at Time preference. Since the stream of damage to
each age is obtained from a standard schedule of ex- health from current illness and injury can extend
pectations of life at that age. A Coale and Demeny years or even decades into the future, it must be de-
(1983) "West" family model life table (level 26 with cided how to value the future relative to the present.
an expectation of life of 82.5 years) has been used as This is a controversial and unresolved issue because
the standard for females. A comparable model with there are two different arguments concerning how to
an expectation of life of 80 years has been used as the regard the future. First, societies typically prefer to
standard for males. For example, a female death at have a given amount of consumption today rather

213


--- Page 228 ---
than tomorrow. This "pure social rate of time prefer- with mortality, and it is easy to apply to nonfatal
ence" is usually assumed to be quite low, of the order disabilities. Disability-adjusted life years attributable
of 0-3 percent per year, meaning that the future is to premature mortality are calculated on the basis of
valued exactly or almost as much as the present. Sec- 1990 deaths by cause, as presented in Table B.8.
ond, there is a reason for discounting the future Estimates of mortality by cause were based on
much more, if resources are not consumed today but three types of source: vital registration data, model-
are invested so as to generate higher consumption based estimates, and epidemiological estimates for
tomorrow. The expected rate of growth of consump- particular diseases. Vital registration data for all
tion times the elasticity of utility with respect to con- countries with good registration systems that attrib-
sumption yields a term typically assumed to be about ute a cause of death were used with only minor mod-
8-10 percent, comparable to the rate of return on in- ifications; such countries include most of the estab-
vestments involving risk and taxation. In evaluating lished market economies, the formerly socialist
the global burden of disease, it is assumed that this economies of Europe, and a large proportion of the
argument does not apply to human lives, which are countries of Latin America and the Caribbean. For
incommensurable with consumption; adding to China high-quality sample registration data from the
healthy years does not necessarily raise consumption Disease Surveillance Points System were used with
per person. This Report therefore uses a discount rate some modifications. Vital registration data were also
of 3 percent per year, which could be entirely attrib- used for some countries in the Middle Eastern cres-
uted to pure time preference. cent and Other Asia and islands regions.
Higher discount rates would reduce the total bur- A variety of models relating cause-specific mortal-
den of disease because future health damage from ity to total mortality by age have been developed on
health losses in 1990 would count for less. More im- the basis of the patterns of causes of death recorded
portant, higher discount rates would also alter the in nations with good registration systems. For the
relative importance of different diseases. Because the large groups of causescommunicable plus maternal
stream of life lost as a result of mortality is, on aver- and perinatal, noncommunicable, and injuriesthese
age, longer than that caused by disability, higher dis- models have been used to allocate deaths to cause
count rates raise the importance of disability com- groups. Whenever possible, these estimates have
pared with that of premature mortality. For the same been validated by examining the results of small-scale
reason, higher discount rates reduce the importance longitudinal population surveillance systems. Esti-
of premature deaths at young ages in relation to those mates for more detailed causes were built up from
at older ages. assessments by disease experts of incidence, remis-
Disability weights. Disabilities were assigned sever- sion, and case-fatality rates. These epidemiological
ity weights ranging from zero, representing perfect estimates by cause have been constructed so as to add
health, to one, representing death. These disability up to total mortality.
weights were determined at a meeting of experts in A different approach was used to estimate the
international health who had not participated in the DALYs lost through life lived with a disability. A
study. In order to reduce the number of weights to be group of experts estimated the incidence, age of on-
assigned and to emphasize large differences in the set, and duration of disability for each specific disease
severity of disability, each disability condition was on the basis of community-based epidemiological
assigned to one of six classes of severity. The disabil- data, routine health facilities information, and, where
ities in a particular class differ in kind (for example, necessary, expert judgment. Separate estimates were
blindness versus paralysis) but were considered to be made for the five age groups, two sexes, and eight
of equal severity. Each participant then voted on the regions in the study. When prevalence was used to
weight to be assigned to the entire class, not to indi- estimate incidence, the GBD incidence prevalence
vidual disabilities, and the class was weighted model was used to check for consistency between the
according to the average vote. It is important to note estimated incidence, remission rate, case-fatality rate,
that many disabling conditions lead to two or more and general background mortality rate. The same
distinct disabilities, which may be classified in more model was also used to check estimated duration for
than one class of severity. each disability. A completed first-round set of esti-
The burden of disease could be computed using a mates was reviewed at a conference hosted by the
prevalence perspective (the extent of burden during a World Health Organization, and comments were
given year, no matter when a disease condition be- taken into account. A second round of estimates was
gan) or an incidence perspective (the future burden of undertaken and was subjected to the same review.
that year's new cases or incident diseases). An inci- The third round of estimates is presented here. A
dence perspective was chosen: the burden of disease fourth and final round of revisions will appear in
is the future stream of disability caused by incident Murray and Lopez (forthcoming).
cases in 1990. This is the more logical way of dealing

214


--- Page 229 ---
Table B.1 Burden of disease by age and sex, 1990
Millions of disability-adjusted DALYs per 1,000 population
life years (DALYs) lost Percentageof DALYs Male/female
Demographic region and age group MAle Female Total lost Male Female Total ratio
Sub-Saharan Africa 152.8 139.9 292.7 100.0 606 542 574 1.12
0-5 83.8 73.3 157.1 53.7 1,765 1,559 1,662 1.13
5-14 19.7 17.5 37.2 12.7 280 251 266 1.12
15-44 36.2 35.6 71.9 24.6 349 335 342 1.04
45-59 7.9 7.1 15.1 5.1 391 323 355 1.21
60+ 5.2 6.2 11.4 3.9 494 491 492 1.01
India 145.3 147.1 292.4 100.0 331 359 344 0.92
0-5 67.3 70.0 137.2 46.9 1,125 1,234 1,178 0.91
5-14 15.8 16.5 32.3 11.1 155 173 164 0.90
15-44 30.8 35.0 65.8 22.5 154 191 172 0.81
45-59 16.5 12.3 28.9 9.9 348 268 308 1.30
60+ 14.9 13,3 28.2 9:6 500 460 480 1.09
China 103.5 97.8 201.3 100.0 177 178 178 0.99
0-5 23.7 26.2 49.9 24.8 394 452 422 0.87
5-14 8.8 7.4 16.3 8.1 91 82 87 1.11
15-44 31.0 31.4 62.4 31.0 101 111 106 0.91
45-59 17.3 12.2 29.6 14.7 239 190 216 1.26
60+ 22.6 20.5 43.1 21.4 462 397 429 1.16
Other Asia and islands 95.1 81.6 176.7 100.0 277 240 259 1.15
0-5 36.8 30.4 67.1 38.0 840 724 783 1.16
5-14 15.0 11.7 26.7 15.1 179 146 163 1.2215-44 24.3 22.4 46.8 26.5 151 140 146 1.08
45-59 10.1 8.1 18.2 10.3 296 230 263 1.29
60+ 8.9 9.0 17.9 10.1 441 397 418 1.11
Latin America and the Caribbean 57.2 45.7 102.9 iEio.o 258 205 232 1.26
0-5 18.1 14.4 32.5 31.5 629 520 575 1.21
5-14 6.5 5.5 12.0 11.6 125 108 116 1.16
15-44 20.8 15.6 36.4 35.4 199 150 175 1.33
45-59 6.4 4.9 11.3 10.9 287 209 247 1.37
60+ 5.5 5.3 10.8 10.5 383 316 347 1.21
Middle Eastern crescent 73.9 70.3 144.2 100.0 288 285 287 1.01
0-5 38.1 36.2 74.3 51.5 925 912 919 1.01
5-14 9.3 8.2 17.5 12.1 142 133 137 1.07
15-44 14.4 15.4 29.8 20.6 127 143 135 0.88
45-59 6.3 4.7 11.1 7.7 284 211 248 1.35
60+ 5.8 5.8 11.6 8.0 427 372 398 1.15
Formerly socialist economies of
Europe (FSE) 33.2 25.0 58.2 100.0 201 138 168 1.45
0-5 3.0 2.4 5.4 9.2 216 181 199 - 1.19
5-14 1.0 1.0 2.0 3.4 37 37 37 1.00
15-44 11.3 6.3 17.6 30.2 148 84 116 1.77
45-59 9.1 5.0 14.1 24.3 337 168 248 2.00
60+ 8.8 10.3 19.1 32.9 420 284 334 1.48
Established market economies (EME) 52.0 41.6 93.6 100.0 133 102 117 1.30
0-5 3.5 2.9 6.4 6.8 132 115 124 1.15
5-14 1.3 0.9 2.2 2.4 24 19 21 1.30
15-44 16.1 11.4 27.4 29.3 87 64 76 1.37
45-59 11.6 7.2 18.7 20.0 175 106 140 1.65
60+ 19.6 19.2 38.8 41.5 324 227 267 1.43
FSE and EME 85.2 66.6 151.8 100.0 153 113 133 1.35
0-5 6.5 5.3 11.7 7.7 161 138 150 1.17
5-14 2.3 1.9 4.2 2.8 29 25 27 1.15
15-44 27.3 17.7 45.0 29.7 105 70 87 1.51
45-59 20.6 12.2 32.8 21.6 222 125 172 1.77
60+ 28.4 29.5 58.0 38.2 349 244 286 1.43
Demographically developing group 628.0 582.3 1,210.3 100.0 299 288 294 1.04
0-5 267.7 250.5 518.1 42.8 952 924 938 1.03
5-14 75.1 66.9 142.0 11.7 160 149 155 1.07
15-44 157.6 155.5 313.1 25.9 159 165 162 0.97
45-59 64.6 49.4 114.0 9.4 295 231 264 1.27
60+ 62.9 60.2 123.0 10.2 458 406 431 1.13
World 713.1 648.9 1,362.1 100.0 269 248 259 1.08
0-5 274.1 255.7 529.9 38.9 853 822 840 1.03
5-14 77.4 68.8 146.2 10.7 140 131 136 1.07
15-44 185.0 173.1 358.1 26.3 148 144 146 1.02
45-59 85.3 61.6 146.9 10.8 273 198 236 1.38
60+ 91.3 89.7 181.0 13.3 417 333 371 1.25
Note: In this appendix the demographically developing group includes the Sub-Saharan Africa, India, China, Other Asia and islands, LatinAmerica and the Caribbean, and Middle Eastern crescent regions.

215


--- Page 230 ---
Table B .2 Burden of disease in females by cause, 1990
(hundredsofthousandsofDALYs lost)

Formerly
Latin socialist Established
Sub- Other America Middle economies market
Saha ran Asia and and the Eastern ofEurope economies FSE and Demographically
Disease or injury Africa India China islands Caribbean crescent (FSE) (EME) EME developing group World
Communicable, maternal, and
perinatal 1,038.7 772.9 281.4 419.8 207.6 387.8 25.7 48.8 74.5 3,108.2 3,182.7
Infectiousandparasitic 716.7 409.9 133.0 228.8 120.6 189.6 8.5 22.8 31.4 1,769.6 1,830.0
Tuberculosis 62.1 45.2 24.4 37.7 10.6 18.8 0.5 0.5 1.0 198.8 199.8
STDs excluding H1V 45.8 32.0 33.3 12.6 21.6 6.3 5.0 15.4 20.5 151.7 172.2
Syphilis 23.9 3.4 0.0 0.1 1.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 29.0 29.1
Chlamydia 1.5 2.7 3.1 2.3 1.5 0.6 0.3 0.8 1.1 11.7 12.8
Gonorrhea 1.6 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 2.2 2.3
Pelvic inflammatory disease 18.7 25.8 30.0 10.1 18.3 5.7 4.8 14.5 19.3 108.7 128.0
Humanimmunodeficiencyvirus 89.9 13.6 0.0 4.9 10.2 0.6 0.2 3.4 3.6 119.1 122.8
Diarrheal diseases 146.2 143.9 21.7 68.8 27.6 78.9 1.1 1.2 2.2 487.2 489.4
Acute watery 78.8 78.9 14.1 37.6 15.9 41.7 1.0 1.0 1.9 267.1 269.0
Persistent 44.6 42.6 3.6 20.5 7.1 24.6 0.0 0.1 0.1 142.9 143.0
Dysentery 22.8 22.4 4.0 10.8 4.6 12.6 0.1 0.1 0.2 77.2 77.4
Childhood cluster 132.8 98.7 8.1 36.5 7.5 43.4 0.2 0.4 0.6 327.1 327.7
Pertussis 22.0 15.2 2.7 5.6 3.4 7.9 0.2 0.3 0.5 56.8 57.3
Polio 6.0 7.5 0.9 1.7 1.0 2.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 19.9 19.9
Diphtheria 0.2 0.6 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.2 1.2
Measles 77.5 48.5 1.5 19.3 1.9 19.9 0.0 0.0 0.1 168.5 168.5
Tetanus 27.2 27.0 3.0 9.8 1.1 12.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 80.7 80.7
Meningitis 6.4 8.2 2.8 4.1 3.3 5.3 0.6 0.5 1.0 30.1 31.1
Hepatitis 1.3 1.7 2.2 1.4 0.9 1.0 0.2 0.3 0.4 8.4 8.9
Malaria 154.1 4.7 0.0 12.5 2.2 1.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 175.0 175.0
Tropical cluster 25.8 7.5 2.3 1.0 13.4 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 51.0 51.0
Trypanosomiasis 8.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.8 8.8
Chagas' disease 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 12.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 12.6 12.6
Schistosomiasis 11.8 0.9 1.5 0.3 0.6 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 15.4 15.4
Leishmaniasis 2.0 5.0 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.6 8.6
Lymphatic filariasis 0.5 1.6 0.4 0.3 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.9 2.9
Onchocerciasis 2.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.7 2.7
Leprosy 1.1 2.6 0.0 0.8 0.3 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.1 5.1
Trachoma 6.9 2.0 3.6 7.0 0.7 3.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 23.7 23.7
Intestinal helminths 4.3 10.0 30.6 28.5 11.9 2.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 87.9 87.9
Ascaris 2.2 5.7 18.7 15.7 6.7 2.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 51.4 51.4
Trichuris 1.5 2.4 10.9 11.6 4.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 30.9 30.9
Hookworm 0.5 1.9 0.9 1.2 0.7 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.6 5.6
Respiratory infections 153.9 161.9 69.0 93.0 29.9 84.9 6.6 11.7 18.3 592.5 610.8
Lowerrespiratoryinfections 148.5 154.0 61.0 87.3 26.5 80.9 4.8 8.0 12.8 558.3 571.1
Upper respiratory infections 1.7 2.8 2.7 2.3 1.3 0.4 1.0 2.3 3.3 11.1 14.4
Otitis media 3.7 5.1 5.3 3.3 2.2 3.5 0.8 1.4 2.2 23.1 25.3
Maternal 79.9 78.2 25.0 43.6 18.0 42.1 4.8 5.5 10.4 286.8 297.2
Hemorrhage 14.3 13.7 6.4 7.5 2.5 4.7 0.5 0.9 1.4 49.1 50.4
Sepsis 27.5 27.5 6.3 15.8 4.1 17.5 1.5 2.0 3.5 98.7 102.2
Eclampsia 4.2 3.9 0.7 2.0 1.6 1.3 0.0 0.1 0.1 13.7 13,8
Hypertension 2.0 1.9 0.3 2.5 0.7 1.8 0.1 0.0 0.1 9.3 9.4
Obstructed labor 19.0 19.4 7.9 10.2 5.7 13.3 2.0 2.3 4.3 75.4 79.8
Abortion 7.9 9.5 0.9 2.6 2.2 2.0 0.4 0.1 0.6 25.1 25.6
Perinatal 88.2 122.9 54.4 54.5 39.1 71.2 5.7 8.8 14.5 430.3 444.7
Noncommunicable 280.5 578.9 558.1 349.8 212.0 255.2 203.5 334.8 538.3 2,234.5 2,772.8
Malignant neoplasms 22.3 53.6 72.0 36.7 27.8 22.3 36.0 79.5 115.5 234.7 350.1
Mouth and oropharynx 1.0 6.3 1.8 2.5 0.4 1.1 0.4 0.9 1.3 13.2 14.5
Esophagus 0.7 3.5 5.3 0.7 0.2 0.7 0.3 0.7 1.0 11.2 12.2
Stomach 1.6 2.4 11.1 2.1 1.4 1.5 3.9 4.3 8.2 20.0 28.2
Colon and rectum 0.8 1.9 4.4 1.9 1.3 1.1 3.5 9.4 12.9 11.5 24.4
Liver 2.1 0.6 9.0 1.8 0.2 0.6 0.3 0.8 1.1 14.3 15.4
Pancreas 0.4 0.5 1.1 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.4 2.6 3.0 2.8 5.8
Trachea, bronchus, and lung 0.5 0.9 6.0 2.0 0.7 1.0 2.2 8.3 10.5 11.1 21.6
Melanoma 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.5 1.2 1.6 1.2 2.8
Breast 2.5 6.1 4.0 4.0 4.7 3.1 5.2 15.7 20.8 24.3 45.1
Cervix 4.6 9.6 3.1 4.7 4.3 [.9 2.0 2.3 4.4 28.1 32.5
Uterus 0.4 0.5 0.9 0.4 0.8 0.4 0.6 2.3 2.8 3.4 6.2
Ovary 1.0 2.0 1.6 1.5 0.7 0.8 1.4 4.0 5.4 7.6 13.0

216


--- Page 231 ---
Formerly
Latin socialist Established
Sub- Other America Middle economies market
Saha ran Asia and and the Eastern of Europe economies FSE and Demographically
Disease or injury Africa India China islands Caribbean crescent (FSE) (EME) EME developing group World
Noncommunicable diseases, malignant neoplasms (continued)
Prostate 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Bladder 0.6 0.2 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.4 0.6 1.1 1.7 2.0 3.7
Lymphoma 1.3 1.4 1.2 1.1 1.1 0.7 1.0 3.5 4.6 6.8 11.4
Leukemia 0.6 2.3 7.1 1.6 1.1 1.3 1.3 2.6 3.9 14.0 18.0
Diabetes mellitus 2.1 10.3 4.1 6.9 5.8 6.3 2.3 7.1 9.5 35.5 45.0
Nutritional and endocrine 39.9 90.6 38.6 41.6 23.9 27.4 5.1 8.6 13.7 262.1 275.8
Protein-energy malnutrition 10.4 29.2 10.1 4.4 4.6 5.1 1.1 1.2 2.4 63.9 66.3
Iodine deficiency 8.5 6.9 4.9 6.4 2.6 6.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 35.8 35.9
Vitamin A deficiency 10.7 20.2 4.9 12.2 6.9 2.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 57.7 57.7
Anemia 6.0 25.0 16.6 13.9 5.9 8.9 3.0 3.9 6.9 76.2 83.0
Neuropsychiatric 41.3 83.6 78.5 57.4 35.7 38.9 29.3 62.0 91.3 335.3 426.6
Depressive disorders 11.2 20.2 31.9 17.7 11.8 11.9 7.9 14.3 22.1 104.8 127.0
Bipolar affective disorders 0.6 1.0 1.6 0.9 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.6 1.0 5.2 6.2
Psychoses 2.7 11.4 7.8 4.2 2.7 2.8 1.2 2.9 4.1 31.6 35.7
Epilepsy 5.5 9.5 6.9 7.0 3.5 5.1 2.6 2.8 5.4 37.4 42.9
Alcohol dependence 2.2 2.4 2.4 1.4 2.0 0.5 2.4 3.7 6.1 10.9 17.0
Alzheimers and other dementias 4.3 9.7 13.6 7.3 4.7 4.9 8.7 23.2 31.9 445 76.4
Parkinson's disease 0.3 0.7 1.0 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.8 1.9 2.7 3.4 6.2
Multiple sclerosis 0.7 1.3 1.7 1.1 0.5 0.7 0.6 1.1 1.7 5.9 7.6
Drug dependence 0.9 1.7 0.7 2.3 2.1 0.9 0.6 3.9 4.5 8.7 13.3
Posttraumatic Stress disorder 3.2 5.1 7.0 4.4 2.8 3.1 2.7 4.5 7.2 25.5 32.7
Sense organ 7.9 11.4 9.0 7.5 3.3 3.1 0.3 0.6 0.9 42.2 43.1
Glaucoma 1.7 1.7 3.4 2.9 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.5 10.2 10.7
Cataract 5.8 8.8 3.6 4.2 2.6 2.7 0.2 0.1 0.3 27.7 28.0
Cardiovascular 66.3 138.0 133.4 86.5 45.9 62.8 82.2 98.1 180.3 532.9 713.2
Rheumatic 6.1 12.7 12.2 3.9 1.8 3.1 1.8 0.9 2.7 39.8 42.6
lschemic heart disease 5.4 31.9 17.6 26.7 11.3 10.6 34.3 37.2 71.5 103.4 175.0
Cerebrovascular 25.3 35.0 58.1 21.8 14.0 18.5 29.7 26.6 56.3 172.6 229.0
Pen-, endo-, and myocarditis
and cardiomyopathy 16.0 31.7 4.4 9.4 7.2 8.9 1.3 2.5 3.8 77.5 81.3
Respiratory 21.2 39.5 85.4 18.4 15.0 16.8 7.6 14.9 22.6 1%.3 218.9
Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease 3.0 7.3 50.9 3.7 2.9 3.0 3.1 5.7 8.7 70.7 79.4
Asthma 10.0 8.7 17.1 7.0 5.6 4.9 2.7 5.8 8.4 53.2 61.7
Digestive 25.4 55.3 37.8 24.6 12.8 21.9 8.5 14.7 23.2 177.8 201.0
Peptic ulcer disease 1.5 3.6 3.9 1.9 0.7 1.2 0.8 1.8 2.6 12.8 15.4
Cirrhosis 4.8 8.4 10.0 5.3 3.0 2.7 1.4 5.1 6.5 34.3 40.8
Genitourinary 10.1 20.3 12.8 11.4 6.6 8.2 3.8 6.2 10.0 69.5 79.5
Nephritis and nephrosis 5.6 10.6 11.1 6.9 4.5 4.5 1.9 4.3 6.2 43.2 49.4
Benign prostatic hypertrophy 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Musculoskeletal 4.6 8.4 40.0 17.0 13.0 7.2 11.3 24.5 35.8 90.2 126.1
Rheumatoid arthritis 1.1 1.1 5.2 1.6 4.6 3.6 4.1 11.3 15.4 17.3 32.7
Osteoarthritis 1.7 3.1 31.1 12.9 6.6 1.9 6.4 11.3 17.7 57.2 74.9
Congenital abnormalities 29.6 45.9 35.4 25.5 14.9 27.1 7.3 11.2 18.6 178.4 197.0
Oral health 5.2 14.1 8.9 11.7 5.9 10.2 9.0 5.7 14.6 56.0 70.6
Dental caries 0.7 1.6 1.1 1.3 2.2 1.6 0.8 0.4 1.2 8.5 9.6
Periodontal disease 4.2 10.6 4.9 5.2 2.9 2.9 0.4 0.5 0.9 30.8 31.7
Edentulism 0.2 1.9 2.9 5.2 0.8 5.6 7.8 4.8 12.6 16.7 29.3
Injuries 79.6 119.4 138.5 46.2 37.2 59.9 21.1 32.1 53.1 480.8 533.9
Unintentional 42.6 104.8 84.7 34.7 31.1 37.0 15.3 22.9 38.2 335.1 373.3
Motor vehicle 8.1 9.4 12.3 8.5 17.9 16.4 4.5 9.2 13.7 72.6 86.3
Poisoning 1.4 0.8 6.6 1.3 0.3 1.0 1.8 0.7 2.5 11.4 13.9
Falls 9.5 21.1 19.2 7.3 2.7 4.6 2.8 7.4 10.2 64.4 74.6
Fires 4.2 8.5 5.6 2.9 1.9 2.6 1.1 1.9 3.1 25.7 28.8
Drowning 4.2 8.3 16.6 3.0 1.1 2.6 0.8 0.5 1.4 35.7 37.1
Occupational 0.5 3.9 1.1 0.7 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.7 7.0 7.7
Intentional 36.9 14.6 53.8 11.5 6.1 22.8 5.8 9.2 14.9 145.7 160.6
Self-inflicted 3.0 10.8 40.0 4.4 1.0 2.7 2.6 4.9 7.4 61.9 69.3
Homicide and violence 4.7 2.8 13.8 5.8 3.2 3.6 3.2 4.3 7.5 34.0 41.4
War 29.2 0.9 0.0 1.3 1.9 16.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 49.8 49.8
Total 1,398.8 1,471.1 978.0 815.7 456.9 702.9 250.2 415.7 665.9 5,823.4 6,489.4
217


--- Page 232 ---
Table B.3 Burden of disease in males by cause, 1990
(hundreds of thousands of DALYs lost)

Formerly
Latin socialist Established
Sub- Other America Middle economies market
Saha ran Asia and and the Eastern of Europe economies FSE and Demographically
Disease or injury Africa India China islands Caribbean crescent (FSE) (EME) EME developing group World
Communicable, maternal, and
perinatal 1,046.8 704.4 228.0 438.0 226.3 347.2 24.5 42.3 66.8 2,990.9 3,057.7
Infectious and parasitic 763.7 404.9 117.6 258.4 137.7 180.2 8.0 18.2 26.3 1,862.5 1,888.8
Tuberculosis 74.6 62.8 34.7 51.6 15.1 21.6 3.1 1.1 4.1 260.5 264.7
STDs excluding HIV 28.9 5.3 0.8 0.6 2.4 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.3 38.3 38.6
Syphilis 27.2 4.7 0.1 0.1 2.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 34.1 34.1
Chlamydia 0.3 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.2 2.5 2.7
Gonorrhea 1.4 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.8 1.8
Pelvic inflammatory disease 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Human immunodeficiency
virus 93.7 27.1 0.0 8.0 34.1 2.6 1.4 12.4 13.7 165.5 179.3
Diarrheal diseases 157.3 136.4 20.7 78.5 31.3 75.1 1.1 1.2 2.3 499.4 501.7
Acute watery 84.1 75.0 14.1 42.6 17.5 39.5 1.0 1.0 2.0 272.8 274.8
Persistent 48.8 40.2 2.7 23.7 8.7 23.7 0.1 0.1 0.1 147.7 147.8
Dysentery 24.4 21.3 4.0 12.2 5.1 12.0 0.1 0.1 0.2 79.0 79.1
Childhood cluster 148.1 95.8 9.3 43.3 8.6 42.5 0.2 0.4 0.7 347.7 348.4
Pertussis 26.1 14.3 2.8 7.1 3.9 7.5 0.2 0.4 0.6 61.7 62.2
Polio 8.3 10.9 1.4 2.4 1.3 3.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 28.1 28.2
Diphtheria 0.1 0.5 0.0 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.1 1.1
Measles 83.0 44.9 1.5 22.3 1.9 18.8 0.0 0.1 0.1 172.5 172.6
Tetanus 30.6 25.3 3.6 11.3 1.3 12.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 84.2 84.2
Meningitis 11.5 11.9 4.0 9.7 3.8 7.4 0.8 0.6 1.4 48.4 49.8
Hepatitis 1.1 1.4 4.5 1.4 0.7 0.8 0.2 0.4 0.6 9.8 10.4
Malaria 161.0 4.8 0.1 12.9 2.2 1.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 182.3 182.3
Tropical cluster 39.0 11.3 3.8 3.1 16.3 1.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 75.0 75.0
Trypanosomiasis 9.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 9.0 9.0
Chagas'disease 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 14.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 14.8 14.8
Schistosomiasis 23.1 1.7 2.8 0.7 1.2 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 29.9 29.9
Leishmaniasis 1.9 6.8 0.6 1.5 0.3 0.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 12.0 12.0
Lymphatic filariasis 1.3 2.8 0.5 0.9 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.6 5.6
Onchocerciasis 3.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.7 3.7
Leprosy 1.2 2.6 0.0 0.8 0.3 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.1 5.1
Trachoma 2.1 1.1 1.1 2.4 0.4 2.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 9.3 9.3
Intestinal helminths 4.2 10.6 32.6 29.6 12.0 2.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 91.8 91.8
Ascaris 2.2 6.0 19.9 16.3 6.8 2.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 53.8 53.8
Trichuris 1.5 2.5 11.6 12.0 4.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 32.2 32.2
Hookworm 0.5 2.1 1.0 1.2 0.7 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.8 5.8
Respiratory infections 162.5 155.7 60.0 103.4 33.9 80.8 8.2 12.5 20.7 596.3 617.1
Lower respiratory infections 157.1 147.3 52.1 97.4 30.2 76.9 6.5 8.9 15.4 560.9 576.4
Upper respiratory infections 1.6 3.2 2.8 2.5 1.3 0.5 0.9 2.1 2.9 11.9 14.8
Otitis media 3.8 5.1 5.0 3.6 2.4 3.5 0.9 1.5 2.3 23.6 25.9
Maternal 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Hemorrhage 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Sepsis 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Eclampsia 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Hypertension 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Obstructed labor 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Abortion 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Perinatal 120.6 143.8 50.4 76.2 54.8 86.2 8.3 11.6 19.8 532.0 551.8

Noncommunicable 287.9 601.3 609.6 359.7 228.6 264.0 231.6 399.0 630.6 2,351.0 2,981.6

Malignant neoplasms 22.5 65.7 113.1 41.4 25.3 26.5 49.9 99.5 149.4 294.6 444.0
Mouth and oropharynx 1.2 12.8 3.8 3.8 1.3 1.9 2.1 3.3 5.4 24.7 30.0
Esophagus 1.5 5.0 11.7 1.3 0.7 1.0 1.3 2.8 4.1 21.2 25.3
Stomach 1.6 4.7 19.9 3.3 2.4 2.1 6.4 7.0 13.4 34.0 47.4
Colon and rectum 0.6 2.5 5.3 1.9 1.2 1.1 3.4 10.2 13.7 12.7 26.4
Liver 3.9 1.6 27.4 4.8 0.3 0.9 0.4 2.5 2.9 38.8 41.7
Pancreas 0.3 0.8 1.8 0.5 0.3 0.5 0.6 3.3 3.9 4.3 8.2
Trachea, bronchus, and lung 1.3 4.7 13.6 5.5 2.2 4.0 13.2 22.4 35.6 31.3 66.9
Melanoma 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.5 1.5 2.0 1.0 2.9
Breast 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Cervix 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Uterus 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Ovary 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0

218


--- Page 233 ---
Formerly
Latin socialist Established
Sub- Other America Middle economies market
Saharan Asia and and the Eastern of Europe economies FSEand Demographically
Disease or injury Africa India China islands Caribbean crescent (FSE) (EME) EME developing group World

Noncommunicable diseases, malignant neoplasms (continued)
Prostate 2.2 1.9 0.3 0.9 1.6 0.7 1.1 6.7 7.8 7.7 15.6
Bladder 0.8 0.8 1.4 0.7 0.7 1.3 1.8 3.3 5.1 5.7 10.9
Lymphoma 3.2 3.1 2.6 1.8 1.7 1.6 1.6 4.8 6.4 13.9 20.3
Ieukemia 0.7 3.2 8.1 2.7 1.5 1.9 1.7 3.5 5.2 18.1 23.3
Diabetes mellitus 1.2 8.4 3.6 4.6 4.3 4.8 1.7 6.2 7.9 26.8 34.7
Nutritional and endocrine 42.5 91.4 27.7 40.5 23.0 25.4 2.9 6.9 9.8 250.6 260.3
Protein-energy malnutrition 11.2 26.3 6.5 4.9 5.2 5.2 0.6 1.2 1.8 59.3 61.1
Iodine deficiency 8.2 7.1 5.0 6.5 2.6 6.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 36.3 36.3
Vitamin A deficiency 11.1 20.9 4.9 12.9 7.2 2.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 59.9 59.9
Anemia 4.1 19.7 10.2 9.5 3.9 6.3 1.3 2.2 3.5 53.6 57.2
Neuropsychiatric 55.8 93.7 81.7 66.7 46.8 41.7 35.1 78.2 113.3 386.4 499.8
Depressive disorders 5.3 10.7 16.6 8.6 5.7 6.0 3.5 6.8 10.3 52.8 63.1
Bipolar affective disorders 0.5 1.1 1.6 0.9 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.6 0.9 5.3 6.1
Psychoses 3.1 10.0 10.3 4.7 3.1 3.3 1.4 3.3 4.8 34.5 39.2
Epilepsy 8.0 13.3 10.2 9.9 4.7 7.3 2.3 4.1 6.4 53.4 59.8
Alcohol dependence 14.9 16.6 16.6 9.4 14.1 3.7 16.4 24.5 40.9 75.3 116.2
Alzheimer's and other
dementias 4.1 9.8 12.6 6.8 4.0 4.6 5.1 16.7 21.8 41.9 63.7
Parkinson's disease 0.3 0.8 0.9 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.5 1.6 2.1 3.6 5.7
Multiple sclerosis 0.6 1.4 1.5 1.0 0.4 0.6 0.5 1.0 1.5 5.5 7.0
Drug dependence 2.8 4.8 2.2 6.8 6.3 2.7 1.8 11.8 13.6 25.7 39.3
Posttraumatic stress disorder 1.9 3.3 4.4 2.6 1.7 1.9 1.2 2.7 3.9 15.8 19.6
Sense organ 6.0 12.4 7.5 5.8 3.1 3.9 0.2 0.3 0.5 38.6 39.1
Glaucoma 0.0 2.3 1.5 1.3 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.2 5.6 5.7
Cataract 5.5 9.3 4.0 4.2 2.5 3.3 0.1 0.1 0.2 28.8 29.1
Cardiovascular 55.6 146.7 148.4 85.0 48.9 64.0 89.8 120.9 210.7 548.6 759.3
Rheumatic 2.4 6.0 9.1 2.0 1.4 1.6 1.6 0.5 2.1 22.5 24.6
lschemic heart disease 6.7 49.5 24.8 35.4 16.0 15.5 45.2 56.4 101.7 147.9 249.6
Cerebrovascular 17.4 27.5 68.4 16.1 13.2 15.5 21.8 23.1 449 158.2 203.1
Peri-, endo-, and myocarditis
and cardiomyopathy 17.1 36.3 5.2 9.6 8.7 9.5 2.3 4.1 6.4 86.2 92.6
Respiratory 22.6 38.5 96.0 21.5 17.3 21.1 13.0 21.2 34.2 217.1 251.3
Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease 3.5 9.7 60.8 4.8 4.1 4.2 6.4 10.3 16.7 87.1 103.8
Asthma 7.8 8.5 18.2 7.5 5.4 6.6 2.7 5.6 8.3 54.0 62.3
Digestive 28.8 55.3 49.9 30.3 20.5 23.0 14.3 23.7 37.9 207.8 245.7
Peptic ulcer disease 2.0 6.4 7.3 2.9 1.2 1.7 1.8 2.7 4.5 21.4 26.0
Cirrhosis 8.7 18.5 22.0 10.9 8.7 4.5 3.3 11.7 15.1 73.4 88.5
Genitourinary 10.9 18.7 21.8 12.3 7.7 10.4 5.3 8.5 13.8 81.8 95.6
Nephritis and nephrosis 6.2 10.4 14.8 7.3 4.2 4.6 2.4 4.5 6.9 47.6 54.5
Benign prostatic hypertrophy 2.3 3.7 5.5 2.7 2.2 2.3 1.3 2.5 3.9 18.6 22.5
Musculoskeletal 1.9 4.0 13.3 10.9 8.8 2.0 2.9 14.4 17.3 40.9 58.2
Rheumatoid arthritis 0.5 1.0 2.3 1.0 2.5 0.5 1.6 2.4 4.0 7.9 11.9
Osteoarthritis 0.6 1.2 8.5 8.9 5.6 0.7 0.8 11.1 11.9 25.4 37.3
Congenital abnormalities 33.8 48.4 34.8 27.8 16.2 29.7 8.4 12.3 20.7 190.7 211.4
Oral health 5.0 15.1 9.2 11.3 5.6 10.4 7.5 5.0 12.5 56.5 69.0
Dental caries 0.7 1.7 1.2 1.3 2.2 1.7 0.7 0.4 1.0 8.7 9.8
Periodontal disease 4.1 11.5 5.3 5.2 2.8 3.1 0.4 0.5 0.9 32.0 32.8
Edentulism 0.2 1.9 2.7 4.8 0.7 5.5 6.4 4.1 10.5 15.8 26.4
Injuries 193.6 147.6 197.6 153.8 117.2 127.9 75.5 78.8 154.3 937.8 1,092.1
Unintentional 107.9 126.3 148.3 109.2 79.4 76.2 53.6 50.8 104.4 647.3 751.7
Motor vehicle 29.0 23.1 33.0 32.6 41.2 31.2 17.2 24.0 41.2 190.1 231.3
Poisoning 3.9 2.1 8.0 3.9 0.5 2.3 6.7 2.0 8.7 20.7 29.5
Falls 20.3 28.9 23.5 21.0 7.2 9.7 5.7 7.9 13.6 110.6 124.2
Fires 5.9 7.1 8.1 5.1 2.7 3.9 2.6 3.2 5.8 32.7 38.6
Drowning 11.3 9.0 27.6 10.5 4.8 7.0 4.8 2.2 7.0 70.2 77.3
Occupational 3.6 5.1 5.0 3.9 2.8 1.9 2.7 1.7 4.4 22.3 26.7
Intentional 85.7 21.4 49.3 44.6 37.8 51.7 21.9 28.0 49.9 290.5 340.4
Self-inflicted 13.9 11.1 29.8 14.9 2.9 7.2 11.6 14.6 26.3 79.7 106.0
Homicide and violence 21.2 8.2 19.5 27.1 30.8 11.5 10.2 13.4 23.7 118.3 142.0
War 50.6 2.0 0.0 2.6 4.1 33.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 92.5 92.5

Total 1,528.3 1,453.3 1,035.2 951.4 572.1 739.2 331.6 520.1 851.7 6,279.7 7,131.4

219


--- Page 234 ---
Table B.4 Burden of disease by age and the three main groups of causes, 1990
Communicable diseases and
maternal and perinatal causes Noncommunicable diseases Injuries
Rate Rate Rate
DALYs lost (per 1000 DALYs lost (per 1,000 DALYs lost (per 1,000
Demographic region and age group (millions) Percentage population) (millions) Percentage population) (millions) Percentage population)
Sub-Saharan Africa 208.6 100.0 408.7 56.8 100.0 111.4 27.3 100.0 53.5
0-4 132 63.5 1,4AJ1.5 18.2 32.1 193.0 6.4 23.4 67.7
5-14 25.5 12.2 181.8 7.2 12.7 51.5 4.6 16.7 32.5
15-44 44.8 21.5 213.2 12.3 21.6 58.4 14.8 54.3 70.6
45-59 3.7 1.8 87.7 10.2 18.0 240.5 1.1 4.2 27.1
60+ 2.1 1.0 92.4 8.9 15.7 383.0 0.4 1.4 16.7
ia 147.7 100.0 173.9 118.0 100.0 138.9 26.7 100.0 31.4
0-4 97.9 66.3 840.7 33.4 28.3 286.6 5.9 22.2 50.9
5-14 15.4 10.4 78.3 9.8 8.3 49.6 7.1 26.7 36.1
15-44 27.1 18.3 70.5 27.3 23.1 71.1 11.5 43.1 30.0
45-59 4.7 3.2 50.2 22.6 19.2 242.0 1.5 5.7 16.3
60+ 2.6 1.8 44.8 25.0 21.1 425.2 0.6. 2.3 10.4
China 50.9 100.0 44.9 116.8 100.0 103.0 33.6 100.0 29.7
0-4 25.5 50.0 215.5 16.4 14.0 138.4 8.1 24.0 68.3
5-14 7.9 15.5 42.1 4.7 4.1 25.3 3.6 10.8 19.4
15-44 12.3 24.2 20.9 33.0 28.2 55.8 17.1 50.9 29.0
45-59 2.7 5.4 20.0 24.3 20.8 177.1 2.6 7.6 18.6
60+ 2.5 4.9 24.6 38.4 32.9 381.7 2.2 6.7 22.2
Other Asia and islands 85.8 100.0 125.7 70.9 100.0 103.9 20.0 100.0 29.3
0-4 49.7 58.0 580.1 14.4 20.3 167.8 3.0 15.0 35.0
5-14 15.2 17.8 92.7 8.0 11.2 48.5 3.5 17.6 21.5
15-44 16.0 18.7 50.1 19.2 27.1 59.9 11.5 57.6 36.0
45-59 2.7 3.1 38.5 14.2 20.0 204.8 1.3 6.7 19.3
60+ 2.1 2.4 48.5 15.2 21.5 355.0 0.6 3.1 14.4
Latin America and the Caribbean 43.4 100.0 97.7 44.1 100.0 99.2 15.4 100.0 34.8
5-14 6.2 14.4 60.7 3.6 8.1 34.5 2.2 14.1 21.222.3 51.5 396.1 8.6 19.5 152.7 1.5 9.7 26.7
15-44 13.0 29.9 62.2 13.2 30.0 63.5 10.2 66.3 49.2
45-59 1.2 2.8 26.7 9.0 20.5 198.2 1.0 6.6 22.2
60+ 0.6 1.5 20.8 9.6 21.8 310.0 0.5 3.2 16.1
Middle Eastern crescent 73.5 100.0 146.1 51.9 100.0 103.2 18.8 100.0 37.3
0-4 55.1 75.0 681.5 15.2 29.3 188.3 4.0 21.1 48.9
5-14 7.0 9.5 54.9 6.2 12.0 48.7 4.3 22.8 33.6
15-44 9.1 12.4 41.1 11.5 22.1 51.8 9.2 49.1 41.7
45-59 1.2 1.7 27.2 8.9 17.2 200.1 0.9 4.8 20.4
60+ 1.1 1.5 36.7 10.1 19.5 347.2 0.4 2.2 14.0
Formerly socialist economies of
Europe (FSE) 5.0 100.0 14.5 43.5 100.0 125.7 9.7 100.0 27.9
0-4 2.5 50.0 93.4 2.3 5.2 84.9 0.6 5.8 20.9
5-14 0.1 2.7 2.6 1.2 2.7 22.1 0.7 7.0 12.5
15-44 1.8 35.0 11.6 9.7 22.4 64.5 6.1 62.8 40.1
45-59 0.3 6.8 6.0 12.2 28.0 213.7 1.6 16.6 28.0
60+ 0.3 5.4 4.7 18.1 41.6 315.9 0.8 7.9 13.3
Established market
economies (EME) 9.1 100.0 11.4 73.4 100.0 92.0 11.1 100.0 13.9
0-4 2.7 29.3 51.8 3.2 4.3 61.5 0.5 4.9 10.6
5-14 0.2 2.1 1.9 1.4 2.0 13.8 0.6 5.4 5.8
15-44 4.4 48.8 12.2 16.0 21.8 44.1 7.0 62.8 19.2
45-59 0.5 5.8 3.9 16.9 23.0 126.2 1.3 11.8 9.7
60+ 1.3 14.0 8.8 35.9 48.9 247.1 1.7 15.1 11.5
FSE and EME 14.1 100.0 124 116.9 100.0 102.2 20.7 100.0 18.1
0-4 5.2 36.6 66.1 5.4 4.7 69.5 1.1 5.3 14.1
5-14 0.3 2.4 2.1 2.6 2.2 16.6 1.3 6.1 8.1
15-44 6.2 43.9 12.1 25.8 22.1 50.1 13.0 62.8 25.3
45-59 0.9 6.2 4.6 29.1 24.9 152.3 2.9 14.0 15.2
60+ 1.5 10.9 7.6 54.0 46.2 266.6 2.4 11.7 12.0
Demographically developing group 609.9 100.0 .147.9 458.5 100.0 111.2 141.9 100,0 34.4
0-4 383.1 62.8 693.7 106.2 23.2 192.3 28.9 20.3 52.3
5-14 77.3 12.7 84.1 39.5 8.6 42.9 25.3 17.8 27.5
15-44 122.3 20.0 63.2 116.4 25.4 60.2 74.5 52.5 38.5
45-59 16.3 2.7 37.6 89.3 19.5 206.4 8.5 6.0 19.6
60+ 11.0 1.8 38.7 107.2 23.4 375.4 4.8 3.4 16.7
World 624.0 100.0 118.5 575.4 100.0 109.2 162.6 100.0 30.9
0-4 388.2 62.2 615.7 111.7 19.4 177.1 30.0 18.4 47.5
5-14 77.6 12.4 72.1 42.1 7.3 39.1 26.6 16.3 24.7
15-44 128.5 20.6 52.5 142.2 24.7 58.1 87.5 53.8 35.7
45-59 17.1 2.7 27.5 118.3 20.6 189.8 11.4 7.0 18.3
60+ 12.6 2.0 25.8 161.2 28.0 330.3 7.2 4.4 14.8

220


--- Page 235 ---
Table B.5 Burden of disease by consequence, sex, and age, 1990
(millions of DALYs lost)
As result of premature death As result of disability
Demographic region and age group Males Females Total Males Females Total
Sub-Saharan Africa 119.5 105.7 225.2 33.3 3.4.2 67.5
0-4 71.6 61.8 133.4 12.2 11.6 23.7
5-14 13.4 12.7 26.1 6.3 4.8 11.1
15-44 26.1 2.2.7 48.8 10.1 12.9 23.1
45-59 4.9 4.4 9.3 3.0 2.8 5.8
60+ 3.5 4.1 7.6 1.7 2.1 3.8
India 100.8 99.7 200.6 44.5 47.4 91.9
0-4 53.0 55.1 108.1 14.2 14.9 29.15-14 9.4 10.8 20.2 6.4 5.7 12.1

15-44 18.9 17.7 36.6 12.0 17.2 29.2
45-59 9.8 7.3 17.2 6.7 5.0 11.7
60+ 9.7 8.7 18.4 5.2 4.6 9.8
China 62.2 53.3 115.5 41.3 44.5 85.8
0-4 16.6 18.7 35.3 7.1 7.5 14.6
5-14 3.2 2.3 5.5 5.7 5.1 10.8
15-44 17.4 13.2 30.6 13.7 18.2 31.9
45-59 10.8 7.0 17.8 6.6 5.2 11.8
60+ 14.3 12.1 26.4 8.3 8.5 16.7
OtherAsiaandislands 62.9 50.1 113.0 32.2 31.5 63.7
0-4 29.7 23.9 53.6 7.0 6.5 13.5
5-14 8.4 6.3 14.7 6.6 5.4 12.0
15-44 13.3 10.1 23.4 11.1 12.3 23.4
45-59 5.8 4.3 10.1 4.3 3.8 8.1
60+ 5.7 5.5 11.2 3.3 3.5 6.7
Latin America and the Caribbean 33.8 24.3 58.0 23.5 21.4 44.9
0-4 13.2 10.1 23.3 4.8 4.3 9.1
5-14 2.6 2.0 4.6 3.9 3.5 7.315-44 11.4 6.6 18.0 9.4 9.0 18.5
45-59 3.4 2.6 6.0 3.0 2.3 5.3
60+ 3.1 3.0 6.1 2.3 2.3 4.7
Middle Eastern crescent 51.5 46.9 98.4 22.4 23.4 48
0-4 31.1 29.6 60.7 7.0 6.6 13.6
5-14 5.4 4.9 10.4 3.8 3.3 7.1
15-44 7.7 6.2 13.9 6.8 9.1 15.9
45-59 3.6 2.6 6.2 2.7 2.1 4.9
60+ 3.7 3.6 7.3 2.1 2.2 4.3
Formerly socialist economies of
Europe (FSE) 21.5 13.0 345 11.7 12.1 23.7
0-4 2.1 1.5 3.5 0.9 0.9 1.8
5-14 0.5 0.3 0.9 0.5 0.7 1.1
15-44 6.9 2.1 9.0 4.4 4.2 8.6
45-59 6.1 2.7 8.8 3.0 2.3 5.3
60+ 59 64 12.3 2.9 3.9 6.9
Established market economies (EME) 29.5 19.6 49.2 22.5 22.0
0-4 2.0 1.5 3.5 1.5 1.4 2.9
5-14 0.5 0.3 0.8 0.8 0.6 1.4
15-44 8.5 3.5 12.0 7.6 7.9 15.4
45-59 6.7 3.7 10.3 4.9 3.5 8.4
60+ 11.9 10.6 22.6 7.7 8.5 16.2
FSE and EME 51.0 32.6 83.6 34.1 34.0 68.2
0-4 4.0 3.0 7.0 2.4 2.3 4.7
5-14 1.1 0.6 1.7 1.3 1.3 2.6
15-44 15.4 5.6 21.0 11.9 12.1 24.0
45-59 12.7 6.4 19.1 7.9 5.9 13.8
60+ 17.8 17.0 3.4.9 10.6 12.5 23.1
Demographically developing group 430.7 380.0 810.7 197.2 202.4 399.6
0-4 215.3 199.1 414.4 52.4 51.3 103.7
5-14 42.4 39.1 81.5 32.7 27.8 60.5
15-44 94.6 76.6 171.3 63.0 78.8 141.9
45-59 38.3 28.2 66.5 26.3 21.2 47.5
60+ 40.1 37.0 77.0 22.8 23.2 46.0
World 481.8 412.6 894.3 231.4 236.4 467.8
0-4 219.3 202.1 421.4 54.8 53.6 108.5
5-14 43.5 39.7 83.2 33.9 29.1 63.0
15-44 110.0 82.2 192.3 74.9 90.9 165.9
45-59 51.1 34.5 85.6 34.2 27.1 61.3
60+ 57.9 54.0 111.9 33.4 35.7 69.1

221


--- Page 236 ---
Table B.6 Distribution of the disease burden in children in demographically developing
economies, showing the ten main causes, 1990
Children under 5 Children ages 5-14
Female Male Female Male
Total DALYs lost (millions) 250 268 67 75
Diseases and injuries Rank Percent Rank Percent Rank Percent Rank Percent
Communicable and perinatal 73.2 74.6 57.1 52.0
Infectious and parasitic 37.5 37.2 48.5 45.2
Tuberculosis 0.5 0.5 WA 5.7 WA 4.1
STDs and HIV 1.0 WI 1.0 WI 2.4 1.9
Syphilis 0.5 0.5 0.0 0.0
Human immunodeficiency virus 0.5 0.5 0.3 0.1
Diarrhea! diseases WI 16.2 I 31 15.7 13 7.1 El 6.1
Childhood cluster 41 10.7 13 10.6 WI 8.6 WI 8.1
Pertussis 1.8 1.9 1.6 1.5
Polio 0.3 0.4 2.0 2.5
Measles 5.6 5.5 4.1 3.4
Tetanus 2.9 2.9 0.8 0.7
Malaria 1 61 4.7 El 4.7 El 4.9 El 4.3
Intestinal helminths 0.0 0.0 1 12.3 'I 11.4
Ascans 0.0 0.0 7.6 7.1
Trichuris 0.0 0.0 4.6 4.2
Respiratory infections lii 18.5 WI 17.6 I 31 7.9 El 6.9
Perinata! 1 21 17.2 19.9 0.0 0.0
Noncommunicable 21.1 19.9 28.4 27.2
Nutritional and endocrine 6.4 6.1 3.7 2.4
Protein-energy malnutrition WA 2.4 13 2.1 0.3 0.3
Iodine deficiency WI 1.3 WI 1.2 0.2 0.2
Vitamin A deficiency '3 2.3 WA 2.2 0.0 0.0
Anemias 0.3 0.3 13 3.0 1.9
Neuropsychiatric 1.1 1.0 7.5 9.1
Epilepsy 0.2 0.3 I 91 2.6 I 81 3.5
Respiratory 2.0 1.8 3.2 4.0
Asthma 0.2 0.2 2.3 2.6
Congenital I 51 6.5 WA 6.6 1.2 1.0
Injuries 5.7 5.5 14.5 20.7
Unintentional 4.6 4.6 12.6 18.1
Motor vehicle 0.4 0.4 I 71 3.7 I 51 4.4
Falls 110 1.2 1.0 1.9 110 3.1
Drowning 0.6 0.7 1.7 WI 3.2
Intentional 1.0 0.8 2.0 2.6
Notes The rankings refer to health intervention priorities; disease groups are ranked only when there is a single intervention or accepted cluster of
interventions for controlling the diseases included in the group.Can be substantially controlled with cost-effective intervention; less than $100 per DALY saved.
Can be partially controlled with moderately cost-effective interventions; $250 to $999 per DALY saved. (There are few or no interventions in
the range of $100 to $250 per DALY saved.)

I I Cannot be controlled in a cost-effective manner; $1,000 or more per DALY saved.

I I Preventive and therapeutic interventions have not been evaluated for cost-effectiveness.


--- Page 237 ---
Table B.7 Distribution of the disease burden in the adult and elderly populations in
demographically developing economies, showing the ten main causes, 1990
Young adults (ages 15-44) Mature adults (ages 45-59) Elderly (60+ years old)
Female Male Female Male Female Male
Total DALYs lost (millions) 155 158 49 65 60 63
Diseases and injuries Rank Percent Rank Percent Rank Percent Rank Percent Rank Percent Rank Percent
Communicable and maternal 50.0 28.2 13.2 15.1 8.4 9.5
Infectious and parasitic 29.5 25.8 10.6 13.6 3.8 5.5
Tuberculosis 7.0 8.4 5.6 9.3 J 1.9 4.0
Sexually transmitted diseases 8.9 1.5 0.3 0.2 0.0 0.0
Human immunodeficiency
virus 6.6 9.3 0.3 0.6 0.0 0.0
Respiratory infections 2.5 2.4 2.0 1.5 4.6 4.0
Maternal I 1] 18.0 0.5 0.0
Noncommunicable 37.6 36.8 81.6 75.8 87.8 86.5
Malignant neoplasms 4.5 4.3 16.7 15.9 10.4 14.5
Stomach 0.3 0.3 1.4 2.2 1.3 I 8 2.3
Liver 0.3 0.8 1.1 1101 2.5 0.7 1.4
Trachea, bronchus, and lung 0.1 0.2 0.9 2.0 0.8 2.3
Cervix 0.6 IIJ 2.6 1.0
Diabetes mellitus 0.4 0.4 I 81 2.8 1.6 I 7] 2.4 1.5
Nutritional and endocrine 3.6 3.5 2.4 1.4 1.4 0.9
Anemia I 8] 2.5 1.5 1.3 0.9 0.7 0.5
Neuropsychiatric 11.9 12.1 6.9 8.5 6.7 7.1
Depressive disorders I 51 5.8 I 71 2.9 2.2 0.9 0.5 0.2
Alcohol dependence syndrome 0.4 9] 2.7 0.7 3.6 0.2 1.6
Alzheimer's disease and other
dementias 0.1 0.1 2.2 1.7 41 4.8 I 4! 4.1
Sense organ 0.2 0.2 4.6 3.0 2.1 2.1
Cataracts 0.2 0.1 3.1 2.3 IN 1.6 1.7
Cardiovascular 6.0 6.5 25.2 23.7 44.3 39.3
Ischemic heart disease 0.6 1.5 I 31 4.7 21 7.6 I 21 11.6 I 2I 11.7
Cerebrovascular 1.5 1.4 I ii 8.7 31 6.7 I ii 16.5 III 13.8
Pen-, endo-, and myocarditis 1.1 1.6 I 41 3.2 61 3.4 I 61 3.6 1 71 3.6
Respiratory 2.3 2.3 5.4 4.5 10.5 11.7
Chronic obstructive
pulmonary 0.3 0.3 I 71 2.8 71 2.7 I 31 8.1 I 31 9.6
Digestive 2.7 4.0 5.8 7.2 3.8 4.8
Cirrhosis 0.8 1.9 2.4 4] 4.2 1.2 1101 2.1
Genitounnary system 1.4 1.1 3.1 4.2 2.5 2.4
Benign prostatic hypertrophy 0.0 8] 2.5 0.4
Musculoskeletal 3.2 1.1 3.9 2.1 2.3 1.2
Osteoarthritis I 91 2.2 0.7 2.7 1.5 1.5 0.6
Oral health 0.6 0.6 4.4 3.4 1.1 0.9
Periodontal disease 0.1 0.1
I 5] 3.1 I 9] 2.5 0.0 0.0
Injuries 12.4 35,0 5.2 9.1 3.8 4.0
Unintentional 6.4 20.7 3.4 6.4 3.0 3.1
Motor vehicle injuries 1101 2.1 3] 8.2 0.9 1.8 0.3 0.6
Falls 0.4 8] 2.8 0.8 1.5 I 9] 1.8 1.2
Intentional 6.0 14.3 1.9 2.7 0.8 0,9
Self-inflicted I 61 3.2 61 4.0 1.1 1.3 0.5 0.6
Homicide and violence 1.0 4] 6.1 0.3 1.0 0.1 0.2
War 1.8 51 4.2 0.4 0.5 0.1 0.1
Nofe: The rankings refer to health intervention priorities; disease groups are ranked only when there is a single intervention or accepted cluster of
interventions for controlling the diseases included in the group.Can be substantially controlled with cost-effective intervention; less than $100 per DALY saved.

I I Can be partially controlled with moderately cost-effective interventions; $250 to $999 per DALY saved. (There are few or no interventions in
the range of $100 to $250 per DALY saved.)

I I Cannot be controlled in a cost-effective manner; $1,000 or more per DALY saved.

I I Preventive and therapeutic interventions have not been evaluated for cost-effectiveness.

223


--- Page 238 ---
Table B .8 Deaths by cause and demographic group, 1990
(thousands of deaths)

Demographically developing group FSE and EME
Males Females Males Females
Ages Age 5 Ages Age 5 Ages Age 5 Age 5
Disease or injury 0-4 and older 0-4 and older Total 0-4 and older Ages 0-4 and older Total World
Communicable, maternal and
perinatal 5,539 2,801 5,038 2,738 16,115 73 243 52 207 575 16,690
Infectious and parasitic 2,814 2,179 2,651 1,658 9,301 9 92 7 46 153 9,454
Tuberculosis 34 1,187 37 720 1,978 0 29 0 9 38 2,016
STDs excluding HIV 41 62 37 53 192 0 0 0 1 1 193
Syphilis 39 62 35 50 186 0 0 0 0 0 186
Chlamydia 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0
Gonorrhea 2 0 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 3
Pelvic inflammatory disease 0 0 0 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 2
Human immunodeficiency
virus 29 101 27 92 248 1 35 1 6 43 291
Diarrheal diseases 1,263 191 1,211 201 2,866 2 1 2 2 7 2,873
Acute watery 635 148 609 155 1,547 2 1 2 2 7 1,553
Persistent 439 5 421 6 871 0 0 0 0 0 872
Dysentery 189 38 181 40 448 0 0 0 0 0 448
Childhood cluster 824 129 774 133 1,860 0 0 0 0 1 1,861
Pertussis 146 22 131 22 321 0 0 0 0 0 321
Polio 4 9 3 7 24 0 0 0 0 0 24
Diphtheria 1 1 1 2 4 0 0 0 0 0 4
Measles 442 69 421 74 1,006 0 0 0 0 0 1,006
Tetanus 232 27 219 28 505 0 0 o o 0 505
Meningitis 71 73 50 39 232 3 3 2 3 10 242
Hepatitis 6 33 6 27 72 0 3 0 2 6 77
Malaria 332 143 301 151 926 0 0 0 0 0 926
Tropical cluster 6 105 6 82 199 0 0 0 0 0 199
Trypanosomiasis 2 27 3 24 55 0 0 0 0 0 55
Chagas' disease 0 11 0 12 23 0 0 0 0 0 23
Schistosomiasis 1 23 0 14 38 0 0 0 0 0 38
Leishmaniasis 4 26 3 20 54 0 0 0 0 0 54
Lymphatic filariasis 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Onchocerciasis 0 17 0 12 30 0 0 0 0 0 30
Leprosy 0 1 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 3
Trachoma 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Intestinal helminths 0 15 0 14 29 0 0 0 0 0 29
Acaris 0 7 0 6 13 0 0 0 0 0 13
Trichuris 0 5 0 5 9 0 0 0 0 0 9
Hookworm 0 3 0 3 6 0 0 0 0 0 6
Respiratory infections 1,371 622 1,339 652 3,984 12 151 9 158 330 4,314
Lower respiratory infections 1,343 620 1,311 650 3,924 12 150 9 157 328 4,251
Upper respiratory infections 3 3 3 2 10 0 1 0 1 2 12
Otitis media 25 0 25 0 51 1 0 0 0 1 52
Maternal 0 0 0 428 428 0 0 o 3 3 431
Hemorrhage 0 0 0 130 130 0 0 0 0 0 130
Sepsis 0 0 0 79 79 0 0 0 0 0 79
Eclampsia 0 0 0 45 45 0 0 0 0 0 45
Hypertension 0 0 0 31 31 0 0 0 0 0 32
Obstructed labor 0 0 0 40 40 0 0 0 0 0 40
Abortion 0 0 0 60 60 0 0 0 1 1 61
Perinatal 1,353 0 1,048 0 2,402 52 0 36 0 89 2,491
Noncommunicable 693 9,562 687 8,612 19,553 37 4,626 30 4,808 9,502 29,055
Malignant neoplasms 16 2,150 27 1,504 3,698 2 1,352 2 1,075 2,431 6,129
Mouth and oropharynx 0 211 1 103 315 0 39 0 11 51 366
Esophagus 0 220 0 112 332 0 43 0 14 58 389
Stomach 0 337 0 185 522 0 143 0 101 244 766
Colon and rectum 0 116 0 99 215 0 136 0 144 280 496
Liver 0 299 1 119 420 0 30 0 13 44 463
Pancreas 0 44 0 29 73 0 49 0 47 96 169
Trachea, bronchus, and lung 0 329 0 111 441 0 402 0 124 526 967
Melanoma 0 8 0 9 17 0 17 0 14 31 48
Breast 0 0 0 158 158 0 0 0 175 175 332
Cervix 0 0 0 183 183 0 0 0 32 32 215
Uterus 0 0 0 27 27 0 0 0 29 29 56
Ovary 0 0 1 50 51 0 0 0 56 56 106
224


--- Page 239 ---
Demographically developing group FSE and EME
Males Females Males Females
Ages Age 5 Ages Age 5 Ages Age 5 Ages
Disease or injury 0-4 and older 0-4 and older Total 0-4 and older Ages 0-4 and older Total World
Noncommunicable diseases, malignant neoplasms (continued)
Prostate 0 105 0 108 0 0 108 213o 105 0
Bladder 0 61 0 18 80 0 51 0 20 71 151
Lymphoma 3 74 3 42 121 0 51 0 45 96 218
Leukemia 6 72 10 55 143 1 41 1 34 77 219
Diabetes mellitus 0 198 0 284 483 0 69 0 108 177 660
Nutritional and endocrine 119 148 127 185 578 1 30 1 41 74 651
Protein-energy malnutrition 66 26 82 33 207 0 2 0 4 6 213
Iodine deficiency 4 7 3 6 19 0 0 0 0 0 19
Vitamin A deficiency 19 0 16 0 35 0 0 0 0 0 35
Anemia 20 31 16 79 147 0 7 0 10 17 163
Neuropsychiatric 36 309 38 218 600 2 111 2 117 232 832
Depressive disorders 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Bipolar affective disorders 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 2 2 3
Psychoses 0 26 0 17 42 0 7 0 9 16 58
Epilepsy 4 56 4 39 103 0 8 0 5 13 115
Alcohol dependence 0 27 0 4 31 0 18 0 4 22 53
Alzheimer's and other
dementias 5 45 7 43 100 1 36 1 58 95 195
Parkinson's disease 0 19 0 12 32 0 16 0 15 30 62
Multiple sclerosis 0 11 0 13 25 0 3 0 5 8 33
Drug dependence 0 10 0 4 14 0 3 0 1 3 18
Posttraumatic stress disorder 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Senseorgan 3 10 3 9 25 0 0 0 0 1 26
Glaucoma 0 1 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 2
Cataract 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 1
Cardiovascular 64 4,436 59 4,459 9,017 2 2,399 2 2,925 5,328 14,345
Rheumatic 1 146 2 292 440 0 17 0 29 46 486
Ischemic heart disease 2 1,348 1 1,118 2,469 0 1,283 0 1,395 2,678 5,147
Cerebrovascular 8 1,516 6 1,652 3,181 0 565 0 882 1,448 4,629
Pen-, endo-, and myocarditis
and cardiomyopathy 32 621 36 540 1,229 0 70 1 64 136 1,364
Respiratory 78 1,172 79 1,008 2,336 1 308 1 199 509 2,845
Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease 11 938 9 756 1,714 0 228 0 130 358 2,072
Asthma 5 61 5 77 147 0 17 0 18 34 181
Digestive 87 738 106 484 1,416 2 231 1 194 427 1,843
Peptic ulcer disease 1 121 1 71 194 0 26 0 20 46 241
Cirrhosis 4 380 3 176 563 0 97 0 49 146 709
Genitourinary 12 264 8 251 535 0 83 0 85 169 704
Nephritis and nephrosis 6 171 4 146 327 0 49 0 50 100 427
Benign prostatic hypertrophy 0 30 0 0 31 0 10 0 0 10 41
Musculoskeletal 0 41 1 63 106 0 10 0 27 37 143
Rheumatoid arthritis 0 2 0 2 4 0 2 0 8 10 14
Osteoarthritis 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Congenital abnormalities 271 40 232 52 595 25 8 21 7 61 656
Oral health 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0

Injuries 254 2,010 233 923 3,420 13 559 8 227 807 4,227
Unintentional 217 1,297 192 531 2,237 12 375 8 163 558 2,794
Motor vehicle 28 457 22 130 637 2 160 2 55 219 856
Poisoning 13 75 7 38 132 1 41 1 13 56 188
Falls 10 87 12 59 168 1 45 0 51 97 265
Fires 18 29 12 23 83 1 10 1 6 18 100
Drowning 59 172 48 71 349 2 27 1 6 36 384
Occupational 0 88 0 28 115 0 19 0 3 22 137
Intentional 37 712 41 393 1,183 1 184 1 64 249 1,432
Self-inflicted 0 359 0 269 629 0 140 0 49 190 818
Homicide and violence 11 171 15 37 233 1 43 1 15 59 292
War 27 182 27 86 322 0 0 0 0 0 322

Total 6,485 14,372 5,958 12,273 39,088 123 5,428 91 5,242 10,883 49,971
Note: FSE, Formerly socialist economies of Europe; EME, established market economies.
225


--- Page 241 ---
World Development Indicators


--- Page 243 ---
Contents
Introduction 233
Key 230
Tables
1 Basic indicators 238
Production
2 Growth of production 240
3 Structure of production 242
4 Agriculture and food 244
5 Commercial energy 246
6 Structure of manufacturing 248
7 Manufacturing earnings and output 250
Domestic absorption
8 Growth of consumption and investment 252
9 Structure of demand 254
10 Structure of consumption 256
Fiscal and monetary accounts
11 Central government expenditure 258
12 Central government current revenue 260
13 Money and interest rates 262
Core international transactions14 Growth of merchandise trade 264

15 Structure of merchandise imports 266
16 Structure of merchandise exports 268
17 OECD imports of manufactured goods: origin and composition 270
18 Balance of payments and reserves 272
External finance
19 Official development assistance from OECD and OPEC members 274
20 Official development assistance: receipts 276
21 Total external debt 278
22 Flow of public and private external capital 280
23 Aggregate net resource flows and net transfers 282
24 Total external debt ratios 284
25 Terms of external public borrowing 286
Human and natural resources
26 Population growth and projections 288
27 Demography and fertility 290
28 Health and nutrition 292
29 Education 294
30 Income distribution and PPC estimates pf GDP 296
31 Urbanization 298
32 Women in development 300
33 Forests, protected areas, and water resources 302
Table la Basic indicators for other economies 304
Technical notes 305
Data sources 325
Classification of economies 326
229


--- Page 244 ---
Key

In each table, economies are listed within their are usually derived from the same sources. Expla-
groups in ascending order of GNP per capita ex- nations of how World Bank estimates and projec-
cept those for which no GNP per capita can be tions are derived from thesources, as well as more
calculated. These are italicized, in alphabetical or- information on the sources, are given in World
der, at the end of their group. The ranking below Population Projections, 1992-93 Edition.
refers to the order in the tables. Note that two Figures in colored bands in the tables are sum-
economies, Zimbabwe and Botswana, with re- mary measures for groups of economies.
cently revised population data, have not been The letter w means weighted average; m, me-
moved in the list to reflect theirnew ranking. dian value; t, total.
The key shows the years of the most recent All growth rates are in real terms.
census and the years of the latest demographic Data cutoff date is April 30, 1993.
survey or vital registration-based estimates. This The symbol. . means not available
information is included to show the currentness of The figures 0 and 0.0 mean zeroor less than half
the sources of demographic indicators, which can the unit shown.
be a reflection of the overall quality of a country's A blank means not applicable.
indicators. Beyond these years, demographic esti- Figures in italics indicate data that are for years
mates may be generated by projection models, or periods other than those specified.
extrapolation routines, or other methods. Other The symbol t indicates economies classified by
demographic indicators, such as life expectancy, the United Nations or otherwise regarded by their
birth and death rates, and under-5 mortality rates, authorities as developing.

Country
Economy in tables census mortality fertilityranking Population Infant Total

Algeria 73 1987 1985 1984
Argentina 89 1991 1988 1990
Armenia 75 1989 1991 1991
Australia 113 1991 1990 1990
Austria 117 1981 1991 1991
Azerbaijan 67 1989 1991 1991
Bangladesh 12 1991 1989 1989
Belarus 93 1989 1991 1991
Belgium 116 1991 1991 1991
Benin 24 1979 1981-82 1981-82
Bhutan 5 1969 1984
Bolivia 41 *1992 1989 1989
Botswana 84 1991 1988 1988
Brazil 91 1991 1986 1986
Bulgaria 71 1985 1991 1991
Burkina Faso 17 1985 1976 1961
Burundi 8 1979 1987 1987
Cameroon 46 1987 1991 1991
Canada 119 1991 1990 1991
Central African Rep. 25 1975 1975 1959

230


--- Page 245 ---
Country
ranking Population In[ant Total
Economy in tables census mortality fertility
Chad 9 1964 1964 1964
Chile 76 1982 1990 1990
China 22 1990 1990 1987
Colombia 57 1985 1990 1990
Congo 55 1984 1974 1974
Costa Rica 72 1984 1990 1990
Côte d'Ivoire 42 1988 1979 1988
Czechoslovakiaa 81 1991 1991 1991
Denmark 122 1981 1991 1991
Dominican Rep. 48 1990 1991 1991
Ecuador 49 1990 1989 1989
Egypt, Arab Rep. 37 1986 1988 1988
El Salvador 54 1971 1988 1988
Estonia 98 1989 1990 1990
Ethiopia 3 1984 1988
Finland 123 1990 1991 1991
France 118 1990 1991 1991
Gabon 97 1981 1960-61 1960-61
Georgia 66 1989 1991 1991
Germany" 121 1987 1991 1991
Ghana 26 1984 1988 1988
Greece 103 1991 1991 1991
Guatemala 47 1981 1987 1987
Guinea 29 1983 1954-55 1954-55
Guinea-Bissau 6 1989 1991 1991
Haiti 23 1982 1987 1987
Honduras 34 1988 1987-88 1987-88
tHong Kong 110 1991 1990 1990
Hungary 87 1990 1991 1991
India 19 1991 1986 1985
Indonesia 36 1990 1991 1991
Iran, Islamic Rep. 77 1986 1986 1975
Ireland 106 1986 1990 1991
tlsrael 107 1983 1990 1990
Italy 114 1991 1991 1991
Jamaica 60 1991 1989 1990
Japan 126 1990 1991 1991
Jordan 51 1979 1990-91 1990-91
Kazakhstan 82 1989 1991 1991
Kenya 20 1989 1989 1989
Korea, Rep. 102 1990 1985 1985
Kyrgyzstan 64 1989 1991 1991
Lao PDR 8 1985 1988 1988
Latvia 95 1989 1990 1990
Lesotho 35 1986 1977 1986
Lithuania 86 1989 1991 1991
Madagascar 10 1974-75 1992 1992
Malawi 14 1987 1982 1977
Malaysia 83 1991 1988 1984
Mali 16 1987 1987 1987
Mauritania 32 1988 1975 1987-88
Mauritius 80 1990 1991 1987
Mexico 92 1990 1987 1987
Moldova 78 1989 1991 1991
Morocco 50 1982 1992 1992
Mozambique 1 1980 1980 1980

231


--- Page 246 ---
Country
Economy ranking Population Total
in tables census Infantmortality fertility
Namibia 62 1991 1992
Nepal 7 1991 1987 1987
Netherlands 115 1991 1991 1991
New Zealand 108 1991 1991 1991
Nicaragua 30 1971 1985 1985
Niger 18 1988 1992 1992
Nigeria 21 *1991 1990 1990
Norway 124 1980 1991 1991
Oman 100 . . 1986 1986
Pakistan 27 1981 1990-91 1990-91
Panama 74 1990 1985-87 1990
Papua New Guinea 45 1990 1980 1980
Paraguay 58 1982 1990 1990
Peru 53 1981 1991-92 1991-92
Philippines 44 1990 1986 1988
Poland 70 1988 1991 1991
Portugal 99 1991 1991 1991
Puerto Rico 101 . .
Romania 61 1992 1990 1990
Russian Federation 94 1989 1991 1991
Rwanda 15 1991 1983 1992
tSaudi Arabia 104 *1992
Senegal 43 1988 1986 1986
Sierra Leone 11 1985 1971 1975
tSingapore 111 1990 1991 1991
South Africa 85 1985 1980 1981
Spain 109 1992 1990 1990
Sri Lanka 31 1981 1988 1989
Sudan 39 1983 1989-90 1989-90
Sweden 125 1990 1991 1991
Switzerland 127 1980 1991 1991
Syrian Arab Rep. 56 1981 1981 1981
Tajikistan 52 1989 1991 1991
Tanzania 2 1988 1991-92 1991-92
Thailand 65 1990 1989 1987
Togo 28 1981 1988 1988
Trinidad and Tobago 96 1990 1989 1989
Tunisia 63 1984 1988 1990
Turkey 69 1990 1988 1988
Turkmenistan 68 1989 1991 1991
Uganda 4 1991 1988-89 1988-89
Ukraine 79 1989 1991 1991
United Kingdom 112 1992 1991 1991
United States 120 1990 1991 1991
Uruguay 90 1985 1990 1990
Uzbekistan 59 1989 1991 1991
Venezuela 88 1990 1989 1989
Yemen Rep. 33 1986/1988 1991-92 1991-92
Yugoslavia 105 1991 1990 1990
Zambia 40 1990 1992 1992
Zimbabwe 38 1982 1988-89 1988-89

* Census data are not yet incorporated in the population estimates.
country groups in the main tables but are shown in greater detail in Table la. For data comparability andcoverage throughout theNote: Economies with sparse data or with populations of more than 30,000 and fewer than I million are included only as part of the
tables, see the technical notes.
a. In all tables data refer to the former Czechoslovakia; disaggragated data are not yet available. b. In all tables, data referto the unified
are not yet available.Germany, unless otherwise stated. c. In all tables, data refer to the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; disaggregated data

232


--- Page 247 ---
Introduction

This sixteenth edition of the World Development In- concessionality of a country's external obligations.
dicators provides economic, social, and natural re- Table 24, Total external debt ratios, includes two new
source indicators for selected periods or years for 200 indicators: concessional debt as a percentage of total
economies and various analytical and geographic external debt, and multilateral debt as a percentage of
groups of economies. Although most of the data col- total external debt. These two sources of external fi-
lected by the World Bank are on low- and middle- nancing are shown separately to reflect their impor-
income economies, comparable data for high-income tance for many developing economies.
economies, where readily available, are also included In Table 28, Health and nutrition, the prevalence of
in the tables. Additional information may be found in malnutrition in children under 5 is used; it is consid-
the World Bank Atlas, World Tables, World Debt Tables, ered a better measure of nutritional status than the
and Social Indicators of Development. These data are previously used indicator, daily calorie supply.
now also available on diskette, in the World Bank's Table 30, on income estimates, has been refined to
*STARS* retrieval system. make use of the purchasing power of currencies
Changes in this edition (PPCs). It contains country-specific observations as
With the independence of several new economies well as data derived from a regression equation.
during the past year, coupled with space limitations Classification of economies
in the main tables, a new criteriondata availability The main criterion used to classify economies and
has been introduced. To be included in the main ta- broadly distinguish different stages of economic de-
bles, an economy must have reasonable coverage of velopment is GNP per capita. This year the per capita
key socio-economic indicators. Basic indicators for income groups are low-income, $635 or less in 1991
economies excluded for lack of data are presented, (40 economies); middle-income, $636 to $7,909 (65
along with countries with fewer than 1 million popu- economies); and high-income, $7,910 or more (22
lation, in Table la, following Table 33. economies). Economies with populations of fewer
To preserve a 20-year interval between the two than 1 million and those with sparse data are not
years shown for most indicators, the earliest year pre- shown separately in the main tables but are included
sented has been changed from 1965 to 1970 or 1975. in the aggregates. Basic indicators for these econ-
Readers wanting data for earlier periods can refer to omies may also be found in Table la.
previous editions or to the publications noted above, Further classification of economies is by geographic
which present data in time series. location. "Europe and Central Asia" now includes
The following changes have also been made. (They the newly independent economies of the former So-
are described more fully in the technical notes.) viet Union. Economies formerly grouped in "Other
Estimates of fish products as a percentage of daily economies" are now included in the appropriate in-
protein supply have been added to Table 4, Agricul- come and geographic groupings. Other classifications
ture and food, because fish is an important source of include severely indebted middle-income economies
protein for some countries and is not included in the and fuel exporters. (See Definitions and data notes,
food production per capita estimates in the table. and the tables on classification of economies at the
Table 21, Total external debt, includes two new indi- back of this book.)
cators: total arrears on long-term debt outstanding Methodology
and disbursed, and ratio of present value to nominal
value of debt. Total arrears denotes principal and in- The Bank continually reviews methodology in an ef-
terest due but not paid, and the present value to fort to improve the international comparability and
nominal value of debt is a measure of the degree of analytical significance of the indicators. Differences

233


--- Page 248 ---
between data in this year's and last year's edition third or more of the overall estimate, however, the
reflect not only updates but also revisions to histori- group measure is reported as not available. The
cal series and changes in methodology. weightings used for computing the summary mea-
All dollar figures are U.S. dollars unless otherwise sures are stated in each technical note.
stated. The various methods used for converting Terminology and data coverage
from national currency figures are described in the
technical notes. In these notes the term "country" does not imply
Summary measures political independence but may refer to any territory
whose authorities present for it separate social or eco-
The summary measures in the colored bands are to- nomic statistics.
tals (indicated by t), weighted averages (w), or me- The unified Germany does not yet have a fully
dian values (m) calculated for groups of economies. merged statistical system. Throughout the tables,
Countries for which individual estimates are not data for Germany are footnoted to explain coverage;
shown, because of size, nonreporting, or insufficient most economic data refer to the former Federal Re-
history, have been implicitly included by assuming public, but demographic and social data generally re-
that they follow the trend of reporting countries dur- fer to the unified Germany. The data for China do not
ing such periods. This gives a more consistent aggre- include Taiwan, China, but footnotes to Tables 14, 15,
gate measure by standardizing country coverage for 16, and 18 provide estimates of the international
each period shown. Group aggregates include coun- transactions for Taiwan, China. In all tables,
tries for which country-specific data do not appear in Czechoslovakia refers to the former Czechoslovakia
the tables. Where missing information accounts for a and Yugoslavia to the former Socialist Federal Repub-

Groups of economies

For this map, economies are classified by
income group, as they are for the tables
that follow. Low-income economies are those
with a GNP per capita of $635 or less in 1991;
middle-income, $636-7,910; high-income,
$7,911 or more.

Low-income economies
Middle-income economies
I High-income economies

Data not available

Ki

Bryal)
Peru

(fn)

Sam,, (US. Bolivia

Tonrga on I)

Paraguay

US V,ngrn A,5vt and Barbud,
55055 (US)
St KiSs Svad,)oupe (Fr)
and Nears Dominic, Chile
5,155,5 055
AnUSes )N,(U MartThrqu, (Fr)
Ancb, S Ut Laci,
(trUth) St. Vincent S B,tbados

.Sdrsn,da

Thn)d,d
and 1,0550

234


--- Page 249 ---
lic of Yugoslavia because disaggregated data are not those classified by the United Nations or otherwise
yet available. regarded by their authorities as developing.
Table content Technical notes
The indicators in Table 1 give a summary profile of The technical notes and the footnotes should be re-
economies. Data in the other tables fall into six broad ferred to in any use of the data. The notes outline the
areas: production, domestic absorption, fiscal and methods, concepts, definitions, and data sources
monetary accounts, core international transactions, used in compiling the tables. A bibliography at the
external finance, and human and natural resources. end of the notes lists the data sources, which contain
The table format of this edition follows that of pre- comprehensive definitions and descriptions of con-
vious years. In each group, economies are listed in cepts used. Country notes to the World Tables provide
ascending order of GNP per capita, except those for additional explanations of sources used, breaks in
which no such figure can be calculated. These are comparability, and other exceptions to standard sta-
italicized and in alphabetical order at the end of the tistical practices that Bank staff have identified in na-
group deemed appropriate. This order is used in all tional accounts and international transactions.
tables except Table 19, which covers only high-in-
come OPEC and OECD countries. The alphabetical Comments and questions relating to the World
list in the key shows the reference number for each Development Indicators should be addressed to
economy; here, too, italics indicate economies with Socio-Economic Data Division, International Eco-
no current estimates of GNP per capita. Economies in nomics Department, The World Bank, 1818 H Street,
the high-income group marked by the symbol are N.W., Washington, D.C. 20433.

FPaoc Is Ida

Iceland
NelharIae Russian Federation
ale of Murr (UIr

lrsiarrd
Clrarrre&lslaoda (UK) Kaaalrhntan
Luxembourg Mangaira
LrOsfrtefl stern

Ondorra Uabekrstaa KFrgyaatao Dell Fr0p
Arrnonur Aaeor erstan - Rnp. or Korea
Par toga ReP. ci

SiSraItae (UK) Arab 'i-I Chrea Knre&,- V

Rep. Iraq )( Afghan rSlae

Pakistan
Nepal Sitar
UdiArair Lax Peapl,'s
Unite IndIa Sangledexlr Dent, Rep
Myanmar\ Hong Kaln5 (UK)
Mauritania g Maoaa (Foot)
C ape Uerdn
Sret
Na
She Gambia Sudan
Canr bad il/p pie enUu,m (US)'
Guinea-OissauGo flea
r1 Federated Staten at MicronesiarM1rahall stands
Sierra Leone Loeka I. \
Ceethal Atrrcan Stun
Libel Repub lie
ToOl

Equalorral Gureea
San TarE and PrrncrpeN Uganda Kenya Naueu0 Kiribalr
0 Rwaeda

Zaire Suruedi

Tanoanra
bras Seychelles

Zaanbln MalawMay05,
(Fe)
Mnaaorbi,

ieebnbWe Mauridua

IIeuoiao (Fe)

alec

South A

man

Basera ar°'°1 BulQanio New
Sal Heezagovina' \ Zealand

Mar 110 Fed Rep at V
- 0050sIaala
Italy sun. an

AlbaniaMar,daCl

'OraaggreaawaauuaarrnrntrwarlaaarerrMraoaerCaeaaaalaaaua
'a aareaareu Mu are oar nor ear/Jew ror roe rower s raaar 0608/Jr RoMe/Ic an nuqaauea

235


--- Page 250 ---
Population density

Population per
square kilometer
0-19
20-49 For this map, population density is calculated by
50-199 dividing a country's population by its total surface area
200 or more (square kilometers of land and inland water area). See
Table 1 for the population and area of the 127 economies
Data not available in the main tables, and Table la for an additional 73
economies.

Fertility and mortality

Total fertility Infant mortality Life expectancy
Births per woman Deaths per 1,000 live births Years
8 150 80

100 n

50

0 1
1970 1991 2000 1970 1980 1991 1970 1980 1991
- Lowincome economies - Highincome economies
Middleincome economies

Note: For explanation of terms or methods, see the technical notes for Tables 27, 28, and 32.

236


--- Page 251 ---
Share of agriculture in GDP

Less than6 percent Share of agriculture in GDP is calculated by taking the

6-9percent value added of an economy's agriculture sector and
I 10-19 percent dividing it by gross domestic product. The shares say
nothing about absolute values of production. For
20-29 percent economies with high levels of subsistence farming, the
30 percent or more share of agriculture in GDP is difficult to measure
because of difficulties in assigning subsistence farming
its appropriate value. For more details, see the technical
Data not available note for Table 3.

Median age atdeath, 1990

Years of age

10-29

30-59

60-74
:0-975 or more The median age at death measures the age below which
half of all deaths occur in a year. For more information,
[ 1 Data not available see Table A.3 in the Population and Health Data Appendix.

237


--- Page 252 ---
Table 1. Basic indicators

GNPper capitaa Lf
Area Average annual Average annual expectancy Adult Iltreracy
Population (thousands growth rate rate of nflaft ona at birth (percent)
(millions) ofsquare Dollars (percent) Female Total(percent)(years)
mid-1991 kilometers) 1991 1980-91 1970-80 1980-91 1991 1990 1990
Low-income economies 3,127.3: 38,828: 350 w 39 w 8.2 w 12.6 w 62 w 52w 40wChina and India 2,016.0 12,849 350 5.6 w 4.3 w 6.9 66w SOw 37w

Other low-income 1,111.21 25,980: 350 1.0w 15.7 w 23.4 w 55 56w 45w

I Mozamb,que 16.1 802 80 -1.! . . 37.6 47 79 67
2 Tanzania 25.2 945 100 -0.8 14.1 25.7 51
3 Ethiopia 52.8 1,222 120 -1.6 4.3 2.4 48 .
4 Uganda 16.9 236 170 . . 46 65 52
5 Bhulan 1.5 47 180 8.4 48 75 62
6 Guinea-Bissau 1.0 36 180 1.1 5.7 56.2 39 76 64
7 Nepal 19.4 141 180 2.1 8.5 9.1 53 87 74
8 Bumndi 5.7 28 210 1.3 10.7 4.3 48 60 50
9 Chad 5.8 1,284 210 3.8 7.7 1.! 47 82 70
10 Madagascar 12.0 587 210 -2.5 9.9 16.8 51 27 20
II Sierra Leone 4.2 72 210 -1.6 12.5 59.3 42 89 79
12 Bangladesh 110.6 144 220 1.9 20.8 9.3 51 78 65
13 Lao PDR 4.3 237 220 . . . . . . 50
14 Malawi 8.8 118 230 0.1 8.8 14.9 45 .
15 Rwanda 7.1 26 270 -2.4 15.1 4.1 46 63 50

16 Mali 8.7 1,240 280 -0.1 9.7 4.4 48 76 68
17 BurkinaFaso 9.3 274 290 1.2 8.6 3.8 48 91 82
18 Niger 7.9 1,267 300 -4.1 9.7 2.3 46 83 72
19 India 866.5 3,288 330 3.2 8.4 8.2 60 66 52
20 Kenya 25.0 580 340 0.3 10.1 9.2 59 42 31

21 Nigeria 99.0 924 340 -2.3 15.2 18.1 52 61 49
22 China 1,149.5 9,561 370 7.8 0.9 5.8 69 38 27
23 Haiti 6.6 28 370 -2.4 9.3 7.1 55 53 47
24 Benin 4.9 113 380 -0.9 10.3 1.6 51 84 77
25 CentralAfricanRep. 3.1 623 390 -1.4 12.1 5.1 47 75 62
26 Ghana 15.3 239 400 -0.3 35.2 40.0 55 49 40
27 Pakistan 115.8 796 400 3.2 13.4 7.0 59 79 65
28 Togo 3.8 57 410 -1.3 8.9 4.4 54 69 57
29 Guinea 5.9 246 460 . . . . . . 44 87 76
30 Nicaragua 3.8 130 460 -4.4 12.8 583.7 66

31 Sri Lanka 17.2 66 500 2.5 12.3 11.2 71 17 12
32 Mauritania 2.0 1,026 510 -1.8 9.9 8.7 47 79 66
33 Yemen,Rep. 12.5 528 520 . . . . . . 52 74 62
34 Honduras 5.3 112 580 -0.5 8.1 6.8 65 29 27
35 Lesotho 1.8 30 580 -0.5 9.7 13.6 56
36 Indonesia 181.3 1,905 610 3.9 21.5 8.5 60 32 23
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 53.6 1,001 610 1.9 9.6 12.5 61 66 52
38 Zimbabwe 10.1 391 650a -0.2 9.4 12.5 60 40 33
39 Sudan 25.8 2,506 14.5 51 88 73
40 Zambia 8.3 753 . . 7.6 . . 49 35 27
Middle-income economies 1,401.0 t 40,7961 2,480 w 0.3 w 28A w 67J 68w 26w 21w
Lower-middle-income 773.8: 19,3091 1,590 w -0.1 w 22.8 w 23.1 w 67 w 32w 26w

41 Bolivia 7.3 1,099 650 -2.0 21.0 263.4 59 29 23
42 Côte d'Ivoire 12.4 322 690 -4.6 13.0 3.8 52 60 46
43 Senegal 7.6 197 720 0.1 8.5 6.0 48 75 62
44 Philippines 62.9 300 730 -1.2 13.3 14.6 65 II 10
45 Papua New Guinea 4.0 463 830 -0.6 9.1 5.2 56 62 48
46 Cameroon 11.9 475 850 -1.0 9.8 4.5 55 57 46
47 Guatemala 9.5 109 930 -1.8 10.5 15.9 64 53 45
48 Dominican Rep. 7.2 49 940 -0.2 9.1 24.5 67 18 17
49 Ecuador 10.8 284 1,000 -0.6 13.8 38.0 66 16 14
50 Morocco 25.7 447 1,030 1.6 8.3 7.1 63 62 5!

51 Jordan' 3.7 89 1,050 -1.7 1.6 69 30 20
52 Tajikistandl 5.5 143 1,050 . . . . . . 69 .
53 Peru 21.9 1,285 1,070 2.4 30.1 287.3 64 21 15
54 El Salvador 5.3 21 1,080 -0.3 10.7 17.4 66 30 27
55 Congo 2.4 342 1,120 -0.2 8.4 0.4 52 56 43
56 SyrianArabRep. 12.5 185 1,160 -1.4 11.8 14.3 67 49 36
57 Colombia 32.8 1,139 1,260 1.2 22.3 25.0 69 14 13
58 Paraguay 4.4 407 1,270 -0.8 12.7 25.1 67 12 10
59 Uzbekistan'1 20.9 447 1,350 . . . . . . 69 .
60 Jamaica 2.4 II 1,380 0.0 17.3 19.6 73 1 2
61 Romania 23.0 238 1,390 0.0 . . 6.2 70
62 Namibia 1.5 824 1,460 -1.2 . . 12.6 58 .
63 Thnisia 8.2 164 1,500 1.1 8.7 7.3 67 44 35
64 Kyrgyzstan" 4.5 199 1,550 . . . . . . 66 .
65 Thailand 57.2 513 1,570 5.9 9.2 3.7 69 10 7
66 Georgiad 5.5 70 1,640 . . . 73
Note. For other economies see Table Ia. For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
238


--- Page 253 ---
GNPpercapitau Life
Area Average annual Average annual expectancy Adult illiteracy
Population (thousands growth rate rate of inflationa at birth (percent)
(millions) of square Dollars (percent) Female Total(pe,re,tt)(years)
mid-1991 kilometers) 1991 1980-91 1970-80 1980-91 1991 1990 1990
67 Azerbaijan' 7.1 87 1,670 71
68 Turkmenistand 3.8 488 1,700 . . . . 66 .
69 Turkey 57.3 779 1,780 2.9 29.4 44.7 67 29 19
70 Poland 38.2 313 1,790 0.6 . 63.1 71 .
71 Bulgaria 9.0 111 1,840 1.7 . . 7.8 72 .
72 CostaRicu 3.1 51 1,850 0.7 15.3 22.9 76 7 7
73 Algeria 25.7 2,382 1,980 -0.7 14.5 10.1 66 55 43
74 Panama 2.5 77 2,130 -1.8 7.5 2.4 73 12 12
75 Armenia' 3.4 30 2,150 . . . . . . 72 .
76 Chile 13.4 757 2,160 1.6 188.1 20.5 72 7 7
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 57.7 1648 2,170 -1.3 22.4 13.8 65 57 46
78 Moldovad 4.4 34 2,170 . . 69
79 Ukraincd 52.0 604 2,340 . . . . 70
80 Mauritius 1.1 2 2,410 6.1 15.3 8.1 70
81 CzechoslovakiaC 15.7 128 2,470 0.5 . . 3.5 72
82 Kuzakhstan' 16.8 2,717 2,470 . . . . . . 69 .
83 Malaysia 18.2 330 2,520 2.9 7.3 1.7 71 30 22
Upper-middle-income 627.0 1 21,486 1 3,530 w 0.6 w 31.7 w 95.4 w 69 w 17 w 14 w
84 Botswana 1.3 582 2,530a 5.6 11.6 13.2 68 35 26
85 South Africa 38.9 1,221 2,560 0.7 13.0 14.4 63
86 Lithuania'' 3.7 65 2,710 . . . . . . 71
87 Hungary 10.3 93 2,720 0.7 2.8 10.3 70 .
88 Venezuela 19.8 912 2,730 -1.3 14.0 21.2 70 10 12
89 Argentina 32.7 2,767 2,790 -1.5 133.9 416.9 71 5 5
90 Uruguay 3.1 177 2,840 -0.4 65.1 64.4 73 4 4
91 Brazil 151.4 8,512 2,940 0.5 38.6 327.6 66 20 19
92 Mexico 83.3 1,958 3,030 -0.5 18.1 66.5 70 15 13
93 Belams1 10.3 208 3,110 . . . . . . 71
94 Russian Federationd 148.7 17,075 3,220 . . . . 69
95 Latvia 2.6 65 3,410 . . . . . 69
96 TrinidadandTobago 1.3 5 3,670 -5.2 18.5 6.5 71
97 Gabon 1.2 268 3,780 -4.2 17.5 1.5 54 52 39
98 Estonia' 1.6 45 3,830 . . . . . . 70
99 Portugal 9.9 92 5,930 3.1 16.7 17.4 74 19 15
100 Oman 1.6 212 6,120 4,4 28.0 -3.1 69
101 Puerto Rico 3.6 9 6,320 0.9 6.5 3.4 76
102 Korea, Rep. 43.3 99 6,330 8.7 20.1 5.6 70 7 4
103 Greece 10.3 132 6,340 1.1 14.5 17.7 77 II 7
104 Saudi Arabia 15.4 2,150 7,820 -3.4 24.9 -2.4 69 52 38
105 YugoslaviaC 23.9 256 18.4 123.0 73 12 7
Low- and middle-income 4,528.0 79,624 1,010w 1.0 w 21.8 w 53.9 w 64w 46w 35 '4Sub-Saharan Africa 488.9 23,066 350 w -1.2 w 13.9 w 18.4 w 51 w 62 w 50 a

East Asia & Pacific 1,666.51 16,369 650 w 6.1 w 9.1 w 6.3 w 68 w 34 w 24 a
South Asia 1,152.2 5,133 320 w 3.1 w 9.7 w 8.3 w 59 w 69 w 54 '4
Europe and Central Asia 492.0 2,3141 2,670 w 0.9 w 18.7 w 18.2 w 70 w 22 w 16 w
Middle East & N. Africa 244.1 11,015 1 1,940 w -2.4 w 18.8 w 8.6 w 64w 57 w 45 '4
Latin America & Caribbean 445.3 20,507 2,390 w -0.3 w 43.1 w 208.2 w 68 w 17w 16 w
Severely indebted 486.2 1 23,5741 2,350 w -1.0 w 39.1 w 189.6 w 67w 27w 22w
High-income economies 822.3 31,682 21,050 w 2.3 w 9.1w 4.5w 77 w 5w 4wOECD members 783.1 t 31,1351 21,530 w 2.3 w 9.0w 4.3w 77 w 5w 4w

106 Ireland 3.5 70 11,120 3.3 14.2 5.8 75
107 '(Israel 4.9 21 11,950 1.7 39.5 89.0 76
108 New Zealand 3.4 271 12,350 0.7 12.5 10.3 76
109 Spain 39.0 505 12,450 2.8 16.1 8.9 77
110 tHong Kong 5.8 l3,430 5.6 9.2 7.5 78
Ill '(Singapore 2.8 1 14,210 5.3 5.9 1.9 74 .
112 United Kingdom 57.6 245 16,550 2.6 14.5 5.8 75 f
113 Australia 17.3 7,687 17,050 1.6 11.8 7.0 77
114 Italy 57.8 301 18,520 2.2 15.6 9.5 77
115 Netherlands 15.1 37 18,780 1.6 7.9 1.8 77
116 Belgium 10.0 31 18,950 2.0 7.8 4.2 76
117 Austria 7.8 84 20,140 2.1 6.5 3.6 76 f f
118 France 57.0 552 20,380 1.8 10.2 5.7 77 f f
119 Canada 27.3 9,976 20,440 2.0 8.7 4.3 77
120 United States 252.7 9,373 22,240 1.7 7.5 4.2 76
121 Germanyc 80.1 357 23,65oh 22h 51h 2.8 76
122 Denmark 5.2 43 23,700 2.2 10.1 5.2 75 f
123 Finland 5.0 338 23,980 2.5 12.3 6.6 76
124 Norway 4.3 324 24,220 2.3 8.4 5.2 77 f
125 Sweden 8.6 450 25,110 1.7 10.0 7.4 78 f
126 Japan 123.9 378 26,930 3.6 8.5 1.5 79
127 Switzerland 6.8 41 33,610 1.6 5.0 3.8 78
World 5,351.01 111,3061 4,010 w 1.2 w 11.2w 15.4w 66w 45w 35w
Fuel exporters 262.81 12,3871 1,990 w -3.1 w 19.6w 9.6w 60w 54w 44w
t Economies classified by the United Nations or otherwise regarded by their authorities as developing, a. See the technical notes. b. In all tables GDP and GNP data
cover mainland Tanzania only. c. In all tables, data for Jordan cover the East Bank only. d. Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more
than the usual range of uncertainty and should be regarded as very preliminary. e. See the footnotes to the Key for data coverage. f. According to UNESCO,
illiteracy is less than 5 percent. g. Data refer to ODE h. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.
239


--- Page 254 ---
Table 2. Growth of production

Average annual growth rate (percent)
GDP Agriculture Industry Manufacturinga Services, etc.b
1970-80 1980-91 1970-80 1980-9) 1970-80 1980-91 1970-80 /980-91 1970-80 1980-9/
Low-income economies 4.5 w 6.0 w 2.1 w 3.7 w 6.3 w 7.5 w 7.2 w 9.3 w 5.7 w 7.0 w
China and India 4.3 w 7.5 w 2.2 w 4.4 w 6.3 w 9.3 w 7.6 w 9.9 w 5.2 w 8.8 w
Other low-income 4.8w 3.7w 2.1 w 2.5 w 6.4 w 4.0w 5.7w 6.8 w 6.5 w 4.8 w

I Mozambique . . -0.! . . 1.6 . . -3.6 . . . . . . -1.7
2 Tanzania 3.0 2.9 0.7 4.4 2.6 -2.4 3.7 -0.8 8.4 2,0
3 Ethiopia 1.9 1.6 0.7 0.3 1.6 1.8 2.5 1.9 3.9 3.!
4 Uganda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5 Bhutan . . 7.6 . . 4.8 . . 14.8 . . /5.2 . . 7.3

6 Guinea-Bissau 2.4 3.7 -1.2 5.0 2.1 2.6 /1.0 2.8
7 Nepal . . 0.5 4.9
8 Bunindi 4.2 4.0 3.2 3.1 11.6 4.6 3.8 5.8 3.5 5.4
9 ChadC 0. I 5.5 -0.4 3.4 -2./ 7.1 2.2 7.3
10 Madagascar 0.5 1.! 0.4 2.4 0.6 0.9 0.6 0.2
II Sierra Leone 1.6 1,1 6.0 2.7 -3.2 -0.8 -2.1 -1.4 2.3 0.9
12 Bangladeshc 2.3 4.3 0.6 2.7 5.2 4.9 5.1 2.9 3.8 5.6
13 Lao PDRC
14 Malawi 5.8 3.! 4.4 2.4 6.3 3.3 . . 3.9 7.0 3.7
IS Rwandac 4,7 0.6 7.1 -1.5 . . 0.5 4.9 0.5 . . 3.1

16 Malic 4.9 2.5 4.2 2.4 2.0 4.0 6.9 2.4
17 BurkinaFaso 4.4 4.0 1.0 3.2 2.5 3.8 4. 1 2.6 /9.9 5.4
18 Niger 1.7 -1.0 -3.7 11.3 2.9
19 India 3.4 5.4 1.8 3.2 4.5 6.3 4.6 4.6 6.7
20 Kenya 6.4 4.2 4.8 3.2 8.6 4.0 9.9 4.9 6.8 4.9

21 Nigeria 4.6 1.9 -0.1 3.5 7.3 -0.4 5.2 . . 9.6 3.!
22 ChinaC 5.2 9.4 2.6 57 78d II ,od 9.5 /1.1 6.1 11.2
23 Haiti 3.7 -0.7 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24 BeninC 2.2 2.4 1.8 4.9 1.4 3.6 . . 4.8 2.7 0.5
25 Central African Rep. 2.4 1.4 I.9 2.4 4.1 3.2 . . . . 2.3 -0.2

26 Ghana -0.1 3.2 -0.3 1.2 -1.0 3.7 -0.5 4.1 1.1 6.6
27 Pakistan 4.9 6.1 2.3 4.2 6. I 7.5 5.4 7.8 6.3 6.6
28 Togo 4.0 1.8 1.9 5.3 7.7 1.5 . . 2.5 3.6 -0.2
29 Guineac
30 NicaraguaC 1.1 -1.9 1.9 -2.2 1.1 -1.7 2.8 -3.1 0.4 -1.7

31 Sri Lanka 4.1 4.0 2.8 2.3 3.4 4.7 1.9 6.3 5.7 4.6
32 Mauritania 1.3 1.4 -1.0 0.7 0.5 4.9 3.7 0.5
33 Yemen, Rep.' . . . . . .
. . . . , . . . . . ,
34 Honduras 5.8 2.7 2.2 2.9 6.7 3.3 6.9 3.7 7.1 2.5
35 Lesotho 8.6 5.5 0.2 1.8 27.8 8.2 /8.0 12.8 13.6 5.3

36 lndonesia 7.2 5.6 4.1 3.1 9.6 5.9 14.0 12.3 7.7 6.8
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 9.5 4.8 2.8 2.4 9.4 4.2 . . . . 17.5 6.2
38 Zimbabwe L6 3.1 0.6 2.2 1.1 2.1 2.8 3.1 2.4 4.0
39 Sudan 5.6 3.3 4.5 3.9 . . 8.1
40 Zambiac 1.4 0.8 2.1 3.3 1.5 0.9 2.4 3.7 1.2 0.0

Middle-income economies 2.3 w
Lower-middle-income 2.7 w

41 Boliviac 4.5 0.3 3.9 1.8 2.6 -0.8 6.0 -0.! 6.8 -0.1
42 Côte d'Ivoire 6.6 -0.5 2.7 -1.2 9.1 -1.6 . . . . 10.9 0.8
43 Senegal' 2.3 3.1 1.3 2.7 5.3 3.8 2.4 5.1 2.0 3.0
44 PhilippinesC 6.0 1.1 4.0 1,1 8.2 -0.5 6.1 0.4 5.1 2.8
45 PapuaNewGuineac 2.2 2.0 2.8 1.6 . . 2.4 . . 0.3 1.8
46 Cameroonc 7.2 1.4 4.0 1.1 10.9 2.2 7.0 . . 7.8 1,1
47 Guatemalac 5.8 1.1 4.6 1.2 7.7 -0.2 6.2 -7.0 5.6 1.0
48 Dominican Rep.c 6.5 1.7 3.1 0.3 8.3 1.6 6.5 0.6 7.2 2.3
49 Ecuador 9.6 2.1 2.8 4.4 13.9 1.1 10.5 -0.1 9.5 2.1
50 Moroccoc 5.6 4.2 1.1 6.8 6.5 3.0 . . 4.2 7.0 4.2

51 Jordan . . -1.5 8.1 . . -0.2 . . 1.4 -2.7
52 Tajikistan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
53 Peruc 3.5 -0.4 0.0 2.2 4.4 -1.1 3.1 -0.7 4.6 -0.9
54 El SaIvador 4.2 1.0 3.4 -0.4 5.2 1.6 4.1 1.4 4.0 1.1
55 Congoc 58 3.3 2.5 3.3 10.3 4.7 . . 6.3 4.5 2.4

56 Syrian Arab Rep.c 9.9 2.6 8.6 -0.6 9.0 6.8 . . . . II.! 1.6
57 Colombia 5.4 3.7 4.6 3.2 5.1 4.8 5.8 3.4 5.9 3.1
58 Paraguayc 8.5 2.7 6.2 3.6 11.2 0.2 7.9 2.2 8.6 3.5
59 Uzbekistan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
60 Jamaica' -1.2 1.6 0.3 1.0 -3.4 2.6 -2.1 2.5 0.0 1.1
6! Romania 0.1 0.1 -0.8 1.9
62 Namibia 1.0 0.3 -2.0 1.7 3.1
63 Tunisia 6.3 3.7 4. 3.1 6.8 2.9 10.3 6.2 4.3
64 Kyrgyzstan
65 Thailand' 7.l 7.9 4.4 3.8 9.5 9.6 10.5 9.4 7.2 8.0

66 Georgia

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

240


--- Page 255 ---
Average annual growth rate (percent)
GDP Agriculture industry Manufaczuringa Services, etc. b
/970-80 /980-91 /970-80 1980-91 1970-80 /980-91 1970-80 1980-91 /970-80 /980-91
67 Azethaijan . . . . . . . . . . .
68 Turkmenistan . . . .. ... .. . - . . ..
69 Turkey 5.9 5.0 3.4 3.0 6.6 6.0 6.1 7.2 6.5 5.0
70 PolandC 1.1 . . . . . . .
7! Bulgaria 1.9 . . -2.5 . . 3.2 . . . . . . 1.4
72 Costa Ricac 5.7 3.! 2.5 3.3 8.2 2.9 . . 3.1 5.9 3.2
73 Algeria 4.6 3.0 7.5 5.0 3.8 1.8 7.6 3.3 5.0 3.6
74 Panamac 4.4 0.5 2.0 2. I 3.9 -5.7 2.8 -0.4 5.0 1.6
75 Armenia .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
76 Chilee 1.4 3.6 3.1 4.! -0.! 3.6 -0.8 3.6 2.3 3.4

77 Iran, islamic Rep. 2.2 2.2 3.9 2.5 -4.8 3.9 6.4 -0.1 5.6 1.6
78 Moldova . . . . .
79 Ukraine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
80 Mauntius 6.8 6.7 -3.3 3.2 10.4 10.1 7.1 11.2 10.9 5.8
81 CzechoslovakiaC . 0.6 -0.4 . . 0.3 . . . . . . 1.2
82 Kazakhstan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
83 Malaysia 7.9 5.7 . . 3.7 . . 7.7 . . 9.6 . . 4.7
Upper-middle-income 6.1 w 2.1 w
84 BotswanaC 14.5 9.8 8.3 3.0 17.6 10.7 22.9 7.5 14.5 10.3
85 South Africa 3.0 1.3 3.2 2.6 2.3 0.0 4.7 -0.1 3.8 2.5
86 Lithuania . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
87 HungaryC 5.2 0.6 2.8 0.9 6.3 -1.6 . . . . 5.2 2.4
88 VenezuelaC 3.5 1.5 3.4 2.8 0.5 2.1 5.7 1.3 6.3 0.9
89 Argentina 2.5 -0.4 2.5 1.5 2.1 -1.4 . . . . 2.9 0.1
90 UruguayC 3.0 0.6 0.8 0.2 4.1 0.0 . . 0.4 2.9 1.2
91 Brazil 8.1 2.5 4.2 2.6 9.4 1.7 9.0 1.7 7.8 3.2
92 MCXICOC 6.3 1.2 3.2 0.5 7.2 1.3 7.0 1.8 6.3 1.3
93 Belarus . . . . . . . . . . . . .
94 Russian Federation
95 Latvia
96 Trinidad and Tobago 5.9 -4.4 -1.4 -6.8 5.6 -6.6 1.7 -8.7 7.4 -2.3
97 Gabonv 9.0 0.2 0.9 . . 1.1 -1.5 -0.8
98 Estonia
99 Portugalv 4.3 2.9 .. . . . . . . . . . . .
100 Oman' 6.2 7.9 .. 7.1 . . 9.6 . . 18.3 . . 6.0
10! Puerto Rico 3.9 4.1 2.3 2.2 5.0 3.6 7.9 1.0 3.2 4.6
102 Korea, Rep.c 9.6 9.6 2.7 2.! 15.2 12.1 17.0 12.4 8.8 9.3
103 Greece 4.7 1.8 1.9 0.2 5.0 1.2 6.0 0.4 5.6 2.5
104 Saudi Arabiav 10.1 -0.2 5.3 14.0 10.2 -2.9 6.4 8.! 10.3 -0.2
105 Yugoslavia 6.0 0.8 3.! 0.6 8.0 0.8 .. . . 4.9 1.0
Low- and middle-income 5.3w 3.3w 2.7w 2.8w . . 3.3 w . . 6.2w 3.5wSub-Saharan Africa 4.0 w 2.1 w 1.5 w 1.8 w 5.3 w 2.0 w 3.5 w . . 5.5 w 2.5 w

East Asia & Pacific 6.6 w 7.7 w 3.1 w 4.3 w 9.4 w 9.4 w 10.5 w 10.6 w 7.1 w 8.6 w
South Asia 3.5w 5.4w 1.8w 3.3w 4.6w 6.4w 4.6w 6.7w 4.7w 6.6w
Europe and Central Asia . . 1.5 w . . . . . . . . . . .
Middle East & N. Africa 5.2 w 2.1 w 4.2 w 3.6 w 3.2 w 0.9 w . . 3.5 w 7.2 w 2.1 w
Latin America & Caribbean 5.5 w 1.7 w 3.5 w 1.9 w 6.1 w 1.4 w 8.0 w 1.3 w 6.1 w 2.0 w
Severely indebted 6.1w 1.7w 3.8w 1.5w 6.7w 1.4w 8.2w 2.0w 6.4w 2.2w
High-income economies 3.2 w 2.9 w 0.8 w 2.7 w 3.4 w 3.8 wOECD members 3.1 w 2.9 w 0.8 w 2.7 w 3.3 w 3.8 w

106 Ireland 4.9 3.5 . . . . . . . . . . .
107 tlsraelc 4.8 3.7 . . . . . . . . .
108 New Zealandc 1.9 1.5 . . 3.8 . . 1.3 . . 0.7 . . 1.6
109 Spain 3.5 3.2 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
110 tHong Kong 9.2 6.9 . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ill tSingaporev 8.3 6.6 1.4 -6.6 8.6 5.8 9.7 7.0 8.3 7.3
112 United Kingdom 2.0 2.9
113 Australia 3.0 3.1 2.9 30 2.1 3.6
114 1taIy 3.8 2.4 0.9 0.5 3.6 2.1 2.9 4.0 2.7
115 Nethcrlandsc 2.9 2.! 3.9 3.7 2.3 3.8 1.8
116 Belgiumc 3.0 2.1 .. 1.5 . . 2.2 . . 3.0 . . 1.9
117 AustriaC 3.4 2.3 2.6 1.0 3.1 2.0 3.2 2.6 3.7 2.2
118 FtanceC 3.2 2.3 . . 1.9 . . 0.9 . . 0.6 . . 2.9
119 Canada 4.6 3.! 1.2 1.6 3.2 3.0 3.5 3.1 6.6 3.3
120 United States' 2.8 2.6 0.6 . . 2.1 3.0 . . 3.3
12! Germany 2.6 2.3 1.1 1.8 1.7 0.9 2.0 1.4 3.5 2.6
122 Denmark 2.2 2.3 2.3 3.2 1.1 2.9 2.6 1.4 2.7 2.1
123 Finland 3.1 3.0 0.2 -0.2 3.0 3.0 3.3 3.] 3.9 3.4
124 Norway 4.8 2.7 1.3 0.8 7.1 5.2 1.2 0.6 3.9 1.1
125 Sweden 1.9 2.0 . . 1.6 2.8 . . 2.5 . . 1.3
126 Japan 4.3 4.2 -0.2 1.2 4.0 4.9 4.7 5.6 4.9 3.7
127 Switzerlandc 0.5 2.2
World 3.5 w 3.9w 1.9 w 2.6 w 3.2 w . . 3.9 w . . 4.1 wFuel exporters 5.0 w 1.3 w 3.2 w 3.6w 3.3 w -0.5 w 6.5w 2.3w 6.9w 1.5 w

a. Because manufacturing is generally the most dynamic part of the industrial sector, its growth rate is shown separately. b. Services. etc. includes unallocated items.
c. GDP and its components are at purchaser values. d. World Bank estimate. e. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

241


--- Page 256 ---
Table 3. Structure of production

GDP Distributionofgross domestic product (percent)
(millionsofdollars) Agriculture Industry Manufacturing a Services, etc. b

1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 1991
Lew-hicome ecoflomles 225,563 920,160 38w 29w 29w 34w 20w 26w 33w 38w
China and India 146,193 591,577 38w 29w 32w 36w 24w 30w 29w 35w
Other low-income 79,034 t 338,471 t 39 w 29 w 21 w 29 w 10 w 40 w 42 w

1 Mozambique . . 1,219 . . 64 . . 15 . . . . 21
2 Tanzania 1,174 2,223 41 61 17 5 10 4 42 34
3 Ethiopia 1,669 5,982 56 47 14 13 9 9 30 40
4 Uganda 1,286 2,527 51 . . 12 4 . . 37
5 Bhutan 240 43 . . 27 . . 10 29
6 Guinea-Bissau 79 211 47 46 2! 12 21 8 3! 42
7 Nepal 861 3,063 67 59 12 14 4 5 21 27
8 Burundi 225 1,035 71 55 10 16 7 12 19 29
9 Chadc 302 1,236 47 43 18 18 17 16 35 39
10 Madagascar 995 2,488 24 33 16 14 . . . 0 59 53

11 SierraLeone 383 743 28 43 30 14 6 3 42 43
12 Bangtadeshc 6,664 23,394 55 36 9 16 6 9 37 48
13 La0PDRC . 1,027 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0
14 Malawi 271 1,986 44 35 17 20 . . 13 39 45
15 Rwanda' 220 1,579 62 38 9 22 4 20 30 40

16 MaliC 338 2,451 61 44 11 12 7 II 28 43
17 BurkinaFaso 335 2,629 42 44 21 20 14 12 37 37
18 Niger 647 2,284 65 38 7 19 5 8 28 42
19 India 52,949 221,925 45 31 22 27 15 18 33 4!
20 Kenya 1,453 7,125 33 27 20 22 12 12 47 5!

21 Nigeria 12,546 34,124 41 37 14 38 4 . 45 26
22 Chinac 93,244 369,651 34 27 38 42 30d 381 28 32
23 Haiti 394 2,641 . . . . .
24 Beninc 332 1,886 36 37 12 14 . 9 52 49
25 CentralAfricanRep. 169 1,202 35 41 26 16 7 . . 38 42
26 Ghana 2,214 6,413 47 53 18 17 II 10 35 29
27 Pakistan 9,102 40,244 37 26 22 26 16 17 41 49
28 Togo 253 1,633 34 33 2! 23 10 10 45 44
29 Guineac . 2,937 . 29 . . 35 . . 5 . 36
30 NicaraguaC 785 6,950 25 30 26 23 20 19 49 47

31 Sri Lanka 2,215 8,195 28 27 24 25 17 14 48 48
32 Mauritania 197 1,030 29 22 38 3! 5 . 32 47
33 Yemen, Rep.c . 7,524 . . 22 . . 26 . . 9 . . 52
34 Honduras 654 2,661 32 22 22 27 14 16 45 51
35 Lesotho 67 578 35 14 9 38 4 13 56 48
36 Indonesia' 9,657 116,476 45 19 19 41 tO 21 36 39
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 6,598 30,265 29 18 28 30 . . . . 42 52
38 Zimbabwe 1,415 5,543 15 20 36 32 21 26 49 49
39 Sudan 1,901 . . 44 . . 14 . . 8 . . 42
40 Z.ambiac 1,789 3,831 II 16 55 47 10 36 35 37
Middle-income economiesLower-middle-income 1,167,639

41 BoliviaC 1,020 5,019 20 . . 32 . . 13 . 48
42 Côte d'Ivoire 1,147 7,283 40 38 23 22 13 21 36 40
43 SenegaN 865 5,774 24 20 20 19 16 13 56 62
44 Philippines 6,691 44,908 30 21 32 34 25 26 39 44
45 Papua New Guinea 646 3,734 37 26 22 35 5 10 41 38
46 Cameroonc 1,160 11,666 31 27 19 22 10 12 50 5!
47 Guatemalac 1,904 9,353 . . 26 . 20 . . . . . . 55
48 DominicanRep.0 1,485 7,172 23 18 26 25 19 13 51 57
49 Ecuadorc 1,673 11,595 24 15 25 35 18 2! 51 50
50 MoroccoC 3,956 27,652 20 19 27 31 16 18 53 50

51 Jordan 3,524 7 26 . 13 67
52 Tajikistan . 0 ' . . . . . .
53 PeraC 7,234 48,366 19 . . 32 . . 20 . . 50
54 EtSalvadorc 1,029 5,915 28 10 23 24 19 19 48 66
55 Congo' 274 2,909 18 12 24 37 . . 8 58 50
56 Syrian Arab Rep.0 2,140 17,236 20 30 25 23 . . . 0 55 47
57 Colombia 7,199 41,692 25 17 28 35 21 20 47 48
58 Pamguay' 595 6,254 32 22 21 24 17 18 47 54
59 Uzbekistan . . . . . . . . . . . . 0
60 Jamaicac 1,405 3,497 7 5 43 40 16 17 51 56

61 Romania 27,619 19 . . 49 . . . . 33
62 Namibia . 1,961 . . 10 . . 28 . 4 . . 62
63 Tunisia 1,244 11,594 20 18 24 32 10 17 56 50
64 Kyrgyzstanc 0 . . . . .
65 Thailandc 7,087 93,310 26 12 25 39 16 27 49 49
66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figureu in italics are for years other than those specified.

242


--- Page 257 ---
GDP Distribution ofgross domestic product (percent)
(millionsofdollars) Agriculture Industry Manufacturing a Sereices, etc. b
1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 1991
67 Azerbaijan . . . . .
68 Turkmenistan S S
69 Turkey 11,400 95,763 30 18 27 34 17 24 43 49
70 Polandc 78,031 7 50 43
7! Bulgaria . . 7,909 . . 13 . . 50 . . . . 37
72 Costa Ricac 985 5,560 23 18 24 25 . . 19 53 56
73 Algeria 4,541 32,678 II 14 41 50 15 10 48 36
74 Panamac 1,021 5,544 15 10 21 II 12 64 79
75 Armenia' . . 0 0 . 0 0
76 ChileC 8,186 31,311 7 41 . 26 . . 52
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 10,914 96,989 19 21 43 21 14 9 38 58
78 Moldova . . . . 0
79 Ukraine . . . 0 ' 0 ' . . . .
80 Mauritius 184 2,253 16 II 22 33 14 23 62 56
81 Czechoslovakiac 33,172 . . 8 . . 56 . . 36
82 Kazakhstan .. . . . . .. .. . .
83 Malaysia' 4,200 46,980 29 . . 25 . . 12 46
Upper-middle-income 265,930 t 12 w 37 w . . . . 50 w
84 Botswana' 84 3,644 33 5 28 54 6 4 39 41
85 South Africa 16,293 91,167 8 5 40 44 24 25 52 51
86 Lithuania . . . . . . 20 . . 45 . . . 0 35
87 Hungalyc 5,543 30,795 18 10 45 34 . . 29 37 55
88 Venezuela 13,432 53,440 6 5 39 47 16 17 54 48
89 Argentina 20,526 114,344 13 15 38 40 27 . . 49 46
90 Uruguay 1,940 9,479 19 10 37 32 . . 25 44 58
91 Brazil 35,546 414,061 12 10 38 39 29 26 49 51
92 Mexicoc 38,318 282,526 12 9 29 30 22 22 59 61
93 Belarus . . . . . 0
94 Russian Federation . . . . . . 13 48 . . . . 39
95 Latvia . 0 . . 20 . . 48 . . 41 . 32
96 TrinidadandTobago 775 4,920 5 3 44 39 26 9 51 58
97 GabonC 322 4,863 19 9 48 45 7 6 34 46
98 Estonia . . . . . . . . . . .
99 Portugalc 6,184 65,103 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
100 Omanc 256 10,236 16 4 77 52 0 4 7 44
101 Puerto RiCOC 5,035 32.469 3 I 34 4! 24 39 62 57
102 Korea, Rep.0 8,887 282,970 26 8 29 45 21 28 45 47
103 Greece 8,600 57,900 IS 17 31 27 19 14 50 56
104 Saudi Arabia' 3,866 108,640 6 7 63 52 10 7 31 41
105 Yugoslavia 12,566 82,317 18 12 41 48 . . 41 40
Low- and midcfle-income . . . . 25 w . . 33 w . . . 42 w
Sub-Saharan Africa 44,0731 164,339 1 35 w 31 w 23 w 29 w 8 w . 41 w 40 w
East Asia & Pacific 143,0541 961,7541 34 w 19 w 34 w 41 w 26 w 33 w 32 w 40 w
South Asia 73,546 1 302,014 1 44 w 31 w 21 w 26 w 14 w 17 w 34 w 43 w
Europe and Central Asia . . . . . . . . .
Middle East & N. Africa 43,981) 1 413,241 1 16 w 14 w 42 w 11 w 42 w
Latin America & Caribbean 154,857 1 1,203,873 1 13 w 34 w 24 w 53 w
Severely indebted 147,806 t . . 14 w 35 w 24 w 52 w
High-income economies 2,106,0851 17,053,7441 4w 39w 29 w 58w
OECD members 2,078,008 1 16,626,259 1 4 w 39 w 29 w 58 w
106 Ireland 3,323 39,028 17 11 37 9 24 3 46 80
107 lIsraeIc 5,603 62,687 . . . . . . . . . .
108 New Zealandc 6,415 42,86! 12 9 33 27 24 18 55 65
109 Spain' 37,909 527,131 . . . . . . . . . . . .
110 tHong Kong 3,463 67,555 2 0 36 25 29 17 62 75
III tSingaporec 1,896 39,984 2 0 30 38 20 29 68 62
112 United Kingdom 106,502 876,758 3 . . 44 . . 33 . . 53
113 Australia' 39,330 299,800 6 3 39 31 24 15 55 65
114 ItalyC 107,485 1,150,516 8 3 41 33 27 21 51 64
115 NetherlandsC 34,285 290,725 6 4 37 32 26 20 57 64
116 BelgiumC 25.242 196,873 . . 2 . . 30 . . 22 . . 68
117 Austrit 14,457 163,992 7 3 45 36 34 25 48 61
118 France' 142,869 1,199,286 . . 3 . . 29 . . 21 . . 68
119 Canada 73,847 510,835 4 36 23 59
120 United StatesC 1,011,563 5,610,800 3 35 . . 25 . 63
121 Germanyce 184,508 1,574,316 3 2 49 39 38 23 47 59
122 Denmark 13,511 112,084 7 5 35 28 22 19 59 67
123 Finland 9,762 110,033 12 6 40 34 27 24 48 60
124 Norway 11,183 105,929 6 3 32 36 22 14 62 62
125 Sweden 29,835 206,411 . . 3 S 34 . . 22 63
126 Japanc 203,736 3,362,282 6 3 47 42 36 25 47 56
127 Swit.zerlandc 20,733 232,000 . 0 0
World 2,792,7821 21,639,120 f 8 w . . 38 w 27w 55wFuel exporters 57,618: 458,283 1 17 w 12 w 39 w 11w 43w

a. Because manufacturing is generally the most dynamic part of the industrial sector, its share of GDP is shown separately. b. Services, etc. includes unallocated
items. c. GDP and its components are at purchaser values. d. World Bank estimate. e. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

243


--- Page 258 ---
Table 4. Agriculture and food

Food
Fertilizer consumption productionper
Value added in agriculture Food aid in cereals (hundredsof grams capita (average Fish products
(millions ofcurrent Cereal imports (thousands of ofplant nutrient per growth rate; (percentage ofdaily
dollars) (thousands ofmetric tons) metric tons) hectare ofarable land) 1979-81 100) protein supply)
1970 1991 1980 1991 1979/80 1990/91 1979/80 1990/91 /979-91 1970 1990
Low-income economies 85,549 t 276,360 1 35,359 1 36,510 1 6,913 1 7,373 1 474 w 993 w 5.8 w 6.3 w
China and India 55,737 t 170,532 1 13,376 1 13,489 1 3551 351 I 669 w 1,478 w 2.3 w 2.9 w
Other low-income 29,615 t 109,326 1 21,983 1 23,021 1 6,557 1 7,022 I 204 w 394 w 5.9 w 6.4 w

I Mozambique . 854 368 479 151 454 78 8 -3.1 4.6 3.0
2 Tanzania 483 1,352 399 130 89 24 90 144 -1.4 8.1 7.7
3 Ethiopia 931 2,822 397 802 III 894 27 80 -1.4 0.2 0.0
4 Uganda 1,425 52 26 17 61 . . 0 -0.6 7.5 7.2
5 Bhutan 104 5 26 I 4 8 8 -0.6
6 Guinea-Bissau 37 96 21 64 18 7 5 17 0.3 3.1 2.1
7 Nepal 579 1,807 56 6 21 1 90 274 2.2 0 0.3
8 Bunindi 159 565 18 31 8 3 7 16 -0.6 1.6 1.3
9 Chad a 142 528 16 73 16 30 . . 18 -0.4 7 9.9
10 Madagascar 243 822 110 114 14 38 25 26 -1.4 3.6 4.4

11 SierraLeone 108 319 83 183 36 17 46 20 -1.1 10.9 10.8
12 Bangladesha 3,636 8,428 2,194 1,631 1,480 1,356 445 1,022 -0.6 7.4 4.8
13 Lao PDR . . . . 121 44 3 0 1 16 0.8 3.8 2.1
14 Malawi 119 701 36 120 5 181 110 198 -2.7 5.9 5.1
15 Rwandaa 135 812 16 19 14 9 3 26 -1.8 0.2 0.2
16 Malju 207 1,082 87 226 22 37 69 73 -0.7 4.6 3.5
17 Burkina Faso 139 1,074 77 177 37 56 26 39 2.4 0.7 0.9
18 Niger 420 877 90 143 9 79 5 3 -3.4 0.2 0.2
19 India 23,916 71,103 424 58 344 217 313 743 1.6 1.6 1.6
20 Kenya 484 1,895 387 330 86 63 169 477 0.5 1.5 2.9
21 Nigeria 4,787 12,271 1,828 763 . . . . 36 124 1.5 2.7 3.5
22 Chinau 31,821 99,429 12,952 13,431 12 134 1,273 2,777 3.0 3.1 3.9
23 Haiti . . . . 195 348 53 37 44 11 -1.2 0.7 2.8
24 Beninu 121 692 61 216 5 8 7 38 1.5 10 4.8
25 CentralAfrican Rep. 60 497 12 27 3 3 1 4 -1.0 4.2 3.0
26 Ghana 1,030 3,404 247 344 110 72 65 48 0.2 19.9 18.7
27 Pakistan 3,352 10,318 613 972 146 343 488 912 0.2 0.6 0.8
28 Togo 85 531 41 238 7 16 49 172 -1.0 5.7 8.4
29 Guineaa . 850 171 296 24 12 31 7 -0.5 1.5 4.5
30 Nicaraguaa 199 2,024 149 176 70 117 185 314 -5.1 1.1 0.4
31 SriLanka 627 2,203 884 918 170 200 776 901 -1.3 10 9.9
32 Mauritania 58 226 166 342 26 101 108 93 -1.5 9.2 3.3
33 Yemen,Rep.0 . 1,657 . . . . . . 149 98 . . . . .
34 Honduras 212 592 139 284 27 84 111 273 -1.6 0.9 1.8
35 Lesotho 23 82 107 100 29 31 144 144 -1.7 0 0.8
36 Indonesiau 4,340 22,465 3,534 2,795 831 45 440 1,141 2.2 7.9 8.7
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 1,942 5,491 6,028 7,807 1,758 1,525 2,469 3,722 1.1 1.2 2.4
38 Zimbabwe 214 1,082 156 131 . . 8 443 606 -1.0 0.8 1.1
39 Sudan . . 2,625 236 1,188 212 453 27 63 -2.8 0.8 0.5
40 2a,nbiau 191 603 498 104 167 4 114 113 -0.7 8.3 4.3
Middle-income economies 73,2001 77,351 1 1,777 1 4,3941 715 w 697 w 6.5 w 6.8 w
Lower-middle-income 40,1371 40,2791 1,292 1 4,1191 721 w 744 w 6.2 w 6.4 w
41 Boliviaa 202 . . 263 219 150 229 16 58 0.7 0.6 0.6
42 Côte d'Ivoire 462 2,754 469 644 2 59 165 97 -0.1 10.3 8.7
43 Senegalu 208 1,129 452 784 61 39 123 50 0.4 8 9.8
44 Philippinesa 1,975 9,489 1,053 1,848 95 81 444 738 -1.9 26.3 20.9
45 PapuaNewGuineaa 240 980 152 287 151 311 -0.1 II 11.8
46 Camemona 364 3,172 140 532 4 9 47 31 -1.8 5.5 6.7
47 Guatemalau . 2,410 204 410 10 170 582 700 -0.7 0.2 0.4
48 Dominican Rep.0 345 1,289 365 712 120 6 517 614 -2.6 5.7 2.8
49 Ecuador a 402 1,749 387 481 8 98 319 232 0.0 3.8 6.8
50 Mocoa 789 5,228 1,821 1,957 119 201 240 332 2.3 1.3 2.8
51 Jordan 263 505 1,539 72 481 433 475 -1.2 0.6 1.2
52 Tajikistan .. .. .. .. . . .. . . .
53 Pem 1,351 . . 1,309 1,432 109 371 338 336 -0.6 5.4 10.6
54 El Salvadoru 292 604 144 324 3 84 1,030 1,027 0.3 1.1 0.7
55 Congoa 49 356 88 96 4 15 6 119 -0.1 17.2 22.8
56 SyrianArabkep.a 435 4,091 726 - 1,741 74 30 224 539 -2.9 0.5 0.1
57 Colombia 1,806 7,258 1,068 780 3 1 603 1,112 0.6 1.7 1.4
58 Paraguaya 191 1,358 75 24 11 0 36 65 1.1 0.3 1.0
59 Uzbekistan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
60 Jamaicaa 93 177 469 413 117 163 503 710 -0.5 12.2 8.9

61 Romania 5,121 2,369 1,834 . . 480 1,365 1,099 -2.3 1.8 3.3
62 Namjbia . . 194 . . 18 . . . . . . . . -2.9 2.8 3.5
63 Thnisia 245 2,084 817 920 165 348 122 181 0.5 1.9 3.7
64 Kyrgyzstan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
65 Thailanda 1,837 11,063 213 521 3 104 160 471 0.5 14.4 12.0
66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

244


--- Page 259 ---
Food
Fertilizer consumption production per
Value added in agriculture Food aid in cereals (hundredsofgram.s capita (average Fish products
(millionsof current Cereal imports (thousands of ofplant nutrient per growth rate; (percentageofdaily
dollars) metric tons)(thousands of metric tons) hectareofarable land) 1979-81 =10)) protein supply)
1970 1991 1980 1991 1979/80 1990/91 1979/80 1990/9! 1979-91 1970 1990
67 Azerbaijan . .
68 Thrknsenistan . . . . ' . . . . . . . '
69 Thrkey 3,383 17,090 6 638 16 4 451 676 -0.2 1.9 2.3
70 Polanda 5,342 7,811 166 742 2,425 1,046 1.1 4.2 4.8
71 Bulgaria 1,021 693 633 . . 100 1,928 1,728 -0.9 2.4 1.7
72 Cost.aRicaa 222 1,013 180 320 1 31 1,573 2,091 -0.7 2.9 2.2
73 Algeria 492 4,608 3,414 5,436 19 26 227 167 0.6 1.3 2.1
74 Panamaa 149 530 87 101 2 I 540 588 -2.0 5.7 7.4
75 Armenia S . . . . . . . 0 . .
76 Chilea 557 . . 1,264 588 22 11 333 653 1.5 4.2 7.8
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 2,120 21,186 2.779 5,025 70 297 771 1.3 0.3 1.6
78 Moldova .
79 Ukraine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 30 248 181 183 22 7 2,564 2,616 -0.6 6.9 8.5
81 Czechoslovakia 2,102 136 . . . . 3,347 2,558 1.5 2.3 2.4
82 Kazakhstan .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
83 Malaysian 1,198 1,336 3,014 . . 4 912 1,950 4.1 13.7 13.8
Upper-middle-income . . . . 33,063 1 37,072 1 485 1 275 1 707 w 639 w . . 6.9 w 7.4 w
84 Botswanaa 28 190 68 99 20 0 8 7 -3.7 0.5 1.3
85 SouthAfrica 1,292 4,594 159 1,345 726 592 -1.1 4.6 3.8
86 Lithuania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
87 Hungaiy3 1,010 3,181 155 128 . . . . 2,805 1,269 1.2 1.1 1.3
88 Venezuelaa 835 2,662 2,484 1,468 . . . . 599 1,137 0.0 5.2 6.7
89 Argentinaa 2,693 16,588 8 31 . . . . 48 61 -0.6 1.1 1.7
90 Uniguay 378 926 45 83 7 20 633 551 0.8 0.8 1.1
91 Brazil 4,388 42,288 6,740 6,332 3 16 755 525 1.7 3.6 2.6
92 Mexicoa 4,462 25,221 7,226 5,433 . . 239 465 631 0.2 1.8 3.3
93 Belams . . . . . . . . . . .
94 Russian Federation . . . . . . . . . . . . .
95 Latvia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
96 Trinidadandlobago 40 144 252 201 . . . . 670 650 -1.7 6.2 3.6
97 Gabon 60 425 27 70 3 25 -l.4 15.6 12.9
98 Estonia . . . . . . . .
99 Portugal . . . . 3,372 1,369 267 877 877 1.5 15.7 15.0
100 Omana 40 374 120 345 306 1,554 .
101 PuertoRicoa 161 470 . . . . . . . . . . -1.4 .
102 Korea,Rep.a 2,311 22,793 5,143 10,411 184 3,857 4,601 -0.1 6.7 15.8
103 Greece 1,569 . . 1,199 753 . . 1,480 1,741 0.3 5 4.8
104 SaudiArabiaa 219 6,713 3,061 5,891 . . 115 2,068 9.4 2.5 2.3
105 Yugoslavia 2,212 9,641 1,420 217 1,102 991 -0.7 1.1 1.1
Low-and middle-income . . . . 108,5691 113,8751 8,6901 11,7671 576w 867 w 6.2 w 6.6wSub-Saharan Africa 13,394 t 52,122 1 8,434 1 10,6261 1,602 1 3,221 1 59 w 90 w 6.1 w 6.2 w

East Asia & Pacific 47,923 1 188,371 1 26,833 1 34,2641 1,525 1 486I 953 w 1,902 w 10.2 w 11.4 w
South Asia 32,7201 95,6451 4,2111 3,7871 2,3391 2,1611 328w 740w 11.7w 14.4w
Europe and Central Asia . . . . 19,2691 6,265 1 284 1 1,326 I 1,446 w 1,094 w 3.6 w 4.0 w
Middle East & N. Africa 7,243 1 57,1771 23,8811 34,9111 2,2201 2,8571 337 w 681 w . . 1.4 w 1.7 w
Latin America & Caribbean 19,755 1 . . 25,782 1 22,6771 721 1 1,716 1 495 w 508 w 6.5 w 6.7 w
Severely indebted 20,522 I . . 37,7231 30,8861 691 1 2,901 1 651 w 501 w 3.8 w 4.5 w
High-income economies 85,4071 79,7981 75,0961 361 21 1,321 w 1,158w 8.2 w 8.6wOECDinembers 83,9851 70,7641 63,5361 . . 1,312 w 1,145w . . 7.5w 8.4w

106 Ireland 559 . . 553 341 . . 5,219 7,323 1.5 2.7 3.9
107 tlsrael3 295 . . l,601 1,635 31 2 1,885 2,343 -0.5 3.8 5.0
108 New Zealand3 914 . . 63 223 . . 12,060 8,7% 0.1 3.1 8.5
109 Spaina . 22,189 6,073 4,016 . . 821 979 1.3 9.2 9.8
110 tHongKong 62 185 812 785 . . . . . . 0.7 19 16.9
Ill tSingapore3 44 96 1,324 780 . . . . 5,375 56,000 -5.1 16.5 9.2
112 United Kingdom 2,975 . . 5,498 2,799 3,235 3,680 0.4 5.6 5.1
113 Australia3 2,277 9,718 5 36 . . 275 238 -0.4 3.3 4.1
114 Italy3 8,387 34,456 7,629 8,466 l,892 l,480 -0.5 3.9 5.6
115 Netherlands3 1,894 11,988 5,246 4,925 8,472 6,l60 0.8 4.6 2.9
116 Belgium . . 3,461 5,599b 6041b 5,282 4,902 1.4 5.1 5.0
117 Austria3 992 4,968 131 88 . . . . 2,484 1,997 0.7 2 2.7
118 France3 . . 40,012 1,570 l,206 3,120 2,953 0.3 5.1 5.8
119 Canada 3,238 1,383 448 . . 398 451 1.2 3.4 6.6
120 United States3 27,937 . . 199 2,834 . . . . 1,099 970 -0.6 3.3 4.3
121 Germany3 5,951c 23,867' 9,500 3,545 4,227 2,637 1.6 4.1 4.0
122 Denmark 882 5,082 355 207 . . . . 2,627 2,463 2.6 9.1 10.5
123 Finland 1,205 7,485 367 58 . 1,892 1,819 0.1 7.2 8.7
124 Norway 624 3,084 725 196 . . . 3,220 2,355 0.5 14.5 15.2
125 Sweden . . 5,825 124 117 . . 1,699 1,162 -0.6 10.2 9.3
126 Japan3 12,467 73,671 24,473 27,474 . . . . 4,777 4,001 -0.1 24.4 28.0
127 Switzerland3 1,247 493 . . . 4,654 4,075 -0.1 2.7 3.7
World 238,777 1 . . 188,9711 188,9581 8,7261 11,769 1 813 w 957 w 6.7 w 7.1 isFuel exporters 9,929 1 55,8281 18,772 1 24,0241 341 2101 167 w 404 w 6.4 w 6.1 is

a. Value added in agriculture data are at purchaser values. b.Inc!udes Luxembourg. c. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

245


--- Page 260 ---
Table 5. Commercial energy

Average annual growth raze (percent) Energy consumption Energy imports
per capita (kilograms as a percentage of
Energy production Energy consumption of oil equivalent) merchandise exports
1970-80 1980-91 1970-80 1980-91 1970 1991 1970 1991
Low-income economies 7.3 w 4.8 w 7.0 w 5.6 w 166 w 376 w 6.0 w 10.0 wChina and India 7.7 w 5.5 w 7.3 w 5.8 w 200 w 488 w 4.0 w 7.0 w

Other low-income 6.7 w 3.2 w 6.0 w 4.7 w 94 w 173 w 7.0 w 13.0 w
I Mozambique 32.3 1.0 113 59
2 Tanzania 7.3 -39.33.2 -1.6-0.2 2.0 49 37 id.ó 65.0
3 Ethiopia 5.5 5.2 0.9 3.4 20 20 11.0 37.0
4 Uganda -3.2 2.8 -6.4 4.1 58 25
5 Bhutan Is
6 Guinea-Bissau . . . . 4.0 2.2 38 38 .
7 Nepal 12.7 10.9 6.0 8.0 10 22 19.0 38.0
8 Burundi . . 6.6 6.9 7.4 7 24 6.0 20.0
9 Chad S S 4.0 0.4 17 17 35.0 31.0
10 Madagascar 0.4 6.8 -2.5 1.8 60 39 9.0 36.0
II SierraLeone . . . . -1.7 0.1 158 75 8.0 32.0
12 Bangladesh . . 11.3 8.8 7.7 . . 57 26.0
13 La0PDR 41.3 -0.4 -4.0 2.3 73 42 .
14 Malawi 11.8 4.2 7.8 1.3 35 41 10.0 24.0
15 Rwanda 4.6 4.0 12.3 1.8 11 29

16 Mali 8.3 6.1 7.8 2.1 15 23 11.0
17 BurkinaFaso . . . . 12.0 1.1 8 17 21.0 35.0
18 Niger . . 13.5 11.8 2.3 16 41 7.0 22.0
19 India 6.8 6.6 6.4 7.2 113 337 8.0 26.0
20 Kenya 15.0 6.4 3.0 1.6 138 104 20.0 25.0

21 Nigeria 4.8 1.0 16.0 4.4 43 154 3.0 1.0
22 China 7.9 5.3 7.5 5.3 258 602 1.0 3.0
23 Haiti 14.0 5.7 9.8 1.7 27 49 7.0 43.0
24 Benin . . 7.4 2.8 3.7 41 46 7.0 29.0
25 CentralAfricankep. 4.3 2.6 -1.6 3.3 44 29 1.0 10.0
26 Ghana 5.8 -0.1 2.3 0.4 180 130 6.0 44.0
27 Pakistan 8.1 6.5 5.3 6.5 139 243 11.0 23.0
28 Too 9.2 . . 9.4 0.8 43 47 5.0 14.0
29 Guinea 15.8 4.1 2.3 1.4 68 68 .
30 Nicaragua 1.7 2.6 4.1 2.7 253 254 7.0 36.0

31 Sn Lanka 8.0 8.5 1.2 4.9 139 177 3.0 17.0
32 Mauritania 4.7 0.3 115 III 5.0 7.0
33 Yemen, Rep. 23.3 7.9 9 96 .
34 Honduras 13.9 4.1 6.1 2.0 191 181 9.0 20.0
35 Lesotho
36 Indonesia 7.9 1.6 9.9 4.8 99 279 2.0 8.0
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 10.7 4.6 10.9 4.6 213 594 10.0 5.0
38 Zimbabwe -1.9 3.0 1.0 3.0 580 517 21.0 28.0
39 Sudan 21.0 2.2 -4.3 0.6 113 54 9.0
40 Zambia 16.0 1.8 7.7 1.3 299 369 5.0 21.0
Middle-income economies 3.1 w 2.3 w 5.4w 3.4w 918w 1,351 w 10.0w 11.0wLower-middle-income 2.0 w 4.3 w 5.0w 2.9w 865w 1,102w 9.0w 11.0w

41 Bolivia 6.8 0.8 9.5 -0.1 183 251 1.0 1.0
42 Cbted'Ivoire 20.5 4.5 6.5 2.7 154 170 4.0 12.0
43 Senegal . . . . -2.9 -1.6 180 105 6.0 28.0
44 Philippines 13.6 6.3 4.0 1.9 235 218 14.0 20.0
45 PapuaNewGuinea 11.4 5.6 8.4 2.4 114 231 39.0 11.0
46 Cameroon 24.4 11.5 6.2 4.4 84 147 6.0 1.0
47 Guatemala 8.5 4.5 6.5 0.6 170 155 2.0 26.0
48 Dominican Rep. 17.0 4.2 6.7 0.9 216 341 14.0
49 Ecuador 36.3 2.9 13.5 3.7 216 598 9.0 1.0
50 Morecco 2.4 1.5 6.8 2.9 170 252 8.0 25.0
51 Jordan 13.1 5.3 322 856 40.0 41.0
52 Tajikistan .. .. .. .. ..
53 Pens 10.6 -1.6 4.4 1.4 468 451 1.0 9.0
54 El Salvador 14.5 3.7 7.7 2.4 157 230 2.0 31.0
55 Congo 41.0 6.9 6.2 3.3 138 214 4.0 1.0
56 Syrian Arab Rep. 9.3 8.0 14.4 3.9 313 955 17.0 10.0
57 Colombia 0.3 10.6 5.9 3.1 490 778 1.0 4.0
58 Paraguay 13.5 12.9 9.7 4.9 114 231 17.0 24.0
59 Uzbekistan
60 Jamaica -0.9 4.3 3.6 -1.4 968 858 25.0 35.0
61 Romania 3.3 -0.4 5.9 0.6 2,136 3,048
62 Namibiaa S S S S . . S S S
63 Tunisia 4.0 -0.2 8.7 4.5 230 556 8.0 13.0
64 Kyrgyzstan .. .5 .. .. ..
65 Thailand 5.5 24.1 7.9 7.4 150 438 17.0 12.0
66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

246


--- Page 261 ---
Average annual growth rate (percent) Energy consumption Energy imports
per capita (kilograms as a percentage of
Energy production Energy consumption of oil equivalent) merchandise exports
1970-80 1980-91 1970-80 1980-91 1970 1991 1970 1991
67 Azerbaijan
68 Turkmenistan . . . . . . . . . .
69 Turkey 3.5 7.7 7.4 6.5 362 809 11.0 32.0
70 Poland 3.6 0.9 4.6 I.! 2,512 3,165 20.0 23.0
71 Bulgaria 2.0 2.3 5.1 0.8 2,657 3,540 .
72 CostaRica 6.9 6.3 6.6 3.7 378 570 5.0 21.0
73 Algeria 5.1 4.9 16.9 15.1 219 1,956 3.0 2.0
74 Panama 10.8 9.5 -6.6 0.2 2,524 1,661
75 Armenia . . . 0 . . .
76 Chile -0.1 3.1 0.1 3.1 867 892 5.0 13.0
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. -5.6 6.2 5.2 4.5 938 1,078 0.0 0.0
78 Moldova
79 Ukraine . . . . . . . . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 1.9 8.1 4.9 3.4 266 389 8.0 24.0
81 Czechoslovakia 0.8 0.0 2.8 0.6 3,893 4,681 10.0 5.0
82 Kazakhstan . . . . . . . . . . . . .
83 Malaysia 22.5 13.5 5.4 7.9 452 1,066 10.0 5.0
Upper-middle-income 3.9 w 0.9 w 5.8 w 3.8 w 989 w 1,701 w 10.0 w 11.0 w
84 Botswanaa 9.1 1.2 10.5 3.0 232 408 .
85 South Africaa 6.6 4.0 3.7 2.9 1,909 2,262 1.0 0.0
86 Lithuania . . . . . . . . . . . . .
87 Hungary 1.1 0.2 3.9 0.7 2,053 2,830 10.0 17.0
88 Venezuela -4.7 0.7 4.4 2.3 2,206 2,521 1.0 1.0
89 Argentina 3.3 3.2 3.3 3.6 1,208 1,764 5.0 6.0
90 Umguay 5.6 7.2 1.0 0.8 797 816 15.0 15.0
91 Brazil 8.7 7.3 8.8 4.7 410 908 13.0 19.0
92 Mexico 13.7 1.2 8.7 1.4 786 1,383 6.0 5.0
93 Belarus .
94 Russian Federation . . .
95 Latvia . . . . . . . . .
96 TrinidadandTobago 6.2 -2.5 4.5 1.7 4,795 4,907 .
97 Gabon 7.0 4.6 11.3 2.5 805 1,154 1.0 0.0
98 Estonia . . . . . . . . . . .
99 Portugal 4.5 3.2 5.1 2.9 747 1,584 15.0 15.0
100 Oman 0.3 8.6 5.9 10.1 660 2,859
101 PuertoRico -5.0 2.3 -1.5 0.5 3,497 2,015 .
102 Korea, Rep. 4.3 9.5 10.1 7.9 495 1,936 16.0 18.0
103 Greece 8.7 5.9 6.6 2.8 976 2,110 21.0 24.0
104 SaudiAmbia 8.7 -1.7 4.5 9.3 3,137 4,866 0.0 0.0
105 Yugoslavia 3.2 3.2 5.3 3.6 1,140 2,296 8.0 19.0
Low- and middle-income 4.2 w 3.1 w 6.0 w 4.3 w 362 w 631 w 9.0 w 11.0 HSub-Saharan Africa 5.4 w 4.7 w 4.4 w 3.5 w 96 w 135 w 6.0 w 12.0 H

East Asia & Pacific 7.8 w 5.0 w 7.1 w 5.3 w 255 w 571 w 9.0 w 10.0 H
South Asia 6.7 w 6.5 w 6.4 w 7.2 w 102 w 289 w 8.0 w 25.0 H
Europe and Central Asia 2.9 w 1.2 w 4.8 w 1.7 w 1,714 w 2,387 w 13.0 w 18.0 H
Middle East & N. Africa 3.3 w 1.7w 7.5 w 7.3 w 545 w 1,185 w 2.0 w 4.0 H
Latin America & Caribbean 2.1 w 2.5 w 5.6 w 2.7 w 722 w 1,051 w 11.0 w 13.0 s
Severely indebted 6.9 w 3.4 w 6.3 w 3.1 w 818 w 1,252 w 10.0 w 11.0 ii
High-income economies 1.4w 1.7w 1.8w 1.5w 4,463 w 5,106 w 11.0 w 11.0 wOECD members 1.5w 1.7w 1.7w 1.5w 4,572 w 5,122 w 11.0 w 11.0 w

106 Ireland 2.1 2.7 3.1 0.8 2,008 2,754 13.0 5.0
107 tlsrael -42.6 -7.4 3.0 2.3 1,876 1,931 9.0 11.0
108 New Zealand 4.5 6.1 2.6 5.0 2,834 4,893 7.0 7.0
109 Spain 3.7 2.6 5.1 1.7 1,276 2,229 26.0 17.0
110 tHongKong 5.4 3.1 973 1,438 4.0 7.0
Ill tSingapore . . . . 2.8 5.6 3,863 6,178 21.0 16.0
112 United Kingdom 7.2 0.4 -0.2 0.7 3,847 3,688 12.0 7.0
113 Australia 6.2 5.7 3.8 2.2 4,032 5,211 5.0 6.0
114 Italy 0.9 1.0 1.6 0.9 2,334 2,756 16.0 10.0
115 Netherlands 8.7 -2.4 2.6 1.4 4,531 5,147 12.0 9.0
116 Belgium . . . . . . . . . . 2,793 .
117 Austria 1.1 -0.2 2.0 1.4 2,773 3,500 10.0 7.0
118 France 0.8 6.3 2.3 1.2 3,182 3,854 13.0 10.0
119 Canada 3.2 3.3 3.5 2.0 7,467 9,390 5.0 5.0
120 United States 0.0 0.7 1.3 1.4 7,665 7,681 7.0 15.0
121 Germanyb _0.2b O.Ob 1.8b 0.4" 3,Q77b 3,463b 80b
122 Denmark 25.0 34.0 0.6 0.0 4,176 3,747 14.0 5.0
123 Finland 6.4 4.3 3.0 2.8 3,418 5,602 13.0 13.0
124 Norway 17.6 7.8 3.3 1.8 6,029 9,130 12.0 3.0
125 Sweden 6.7 4.2 1.2 1.3 5,398 5,901 11.0 8.0
126 Japan 1.6 3.9 2.2 2.2 2,654 3,552 20.0 17.0
127 Switzerland 4.5 1.0 1.2 1.4 3,186 3,943 7.0 5.0
World 2.7 w 2.4 w 2.9 w 2.5 w 1,195 w 1,343 w 10.0 w 11.0 w
Fuel exporters 2.5w 1.6w 7.0w 6.8w 658w 1,261 w 3.0w 1.0w
a. Figures for the South African Customs Union comprising South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, Botswana, and Swaziland are included in South African data; trade among
the component territories is excluded. b. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

247


--- Page 262 ---
Table 6. Structure of manufacturing

Distribution of manufacturing value added (percent; current prices)
Value added in Fond, Machinery
manufacturing (millions of beverages, Textiles and and transportcurrent dollars) and tobacco clothing equipment Chemicals Othera

1970 1990 /970 1990 1970 /990 /970 /990 1970 /990 1970 /990
Low-income economies 44,177 t 240,456China and India 35,483 t 181,072 1

Other low-income 8,256

I Mozambique . . . SI . 13 . 5 . 3 . . 28
2 Tanzania 118 86 36 30 28 18 5 7 4 /6 26 29
3 Ethiopia 149 614 46 48 31 19 0 2 2 4 21 28
4 Uganda 107 40 20 2 4 34
5 Bhutan . . 27 S .
6 Guinea-Bissau 17 18 ,25 . . 2 .. 8 .
7 Nepal 32 152 . 35 . . . 30
8 Bunrndi 16 99 53 25 0 6 . 16
9 Chad' 51 250 . . . .
10 Madagascar 36 39 28 36 6 3 7 7 23 14
II SierraLeone 22 52 . . .
12 Bangladeaht 387 1,959 30 24 47 35 3 5 II 17 10 18
13 La0PDR .. .. ..
14 Malawi . . 227 51 17 3 10 20
IS Rwandab 8 316 86 0 3 2 . . 8

16 Malib 25 286 36 . 40 . 4 . , 5 14
17 BurkillaFaso 47 325 69 9 2 . I 19
18 Nigert' 30 219 . . . . .
19 India 7,928 48,930 13 12 21 12 20 26 14 17 32 33
20 Kenya 174 862 33 38 9 10 16 10 9 9 33 33

21 Nigeria 426 36 . . 26 . . I . . 6 . . 31
22 China 27.555 132.142 15 15 24 . . 13 34
23 Haiti .
24 Benint 38 162
25 Central African Rep. 12

26 Ghanats 252 575 34 . 16 . 4 . 4 . . 41
27 Pakistan 1,462 6,184 24 29 38 19 6 7 9 15 23 30
28 Togo" 25 162 . -.
29 Guinea1' . . 123 .
30 Nicaragua" 159 260 53 14 2 . 8 . . 23

31 SriLanka 369 1,077 26 51 19 23 10 4 II 3 33 20
32 Mauritania 10 . . . 0 0
33 Yemen, Rep)' 0 549 20 . 50 . I . 28
34 Honduras 91 428 58 51 10 9 1 2 4 5 28 33
35 Lesotho 3 64

36 Indonesiat' 994 21,722 65 24 14 14 2 10 6 10 13 42
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. . . . . 17 31 35 16 9 9 12 8 27 36
38 Zimbabwe 293 1,508 24 30 16 17 9 8 II 10 40 34
39 Sudan . . 772 39 . . 34 . 0 3 . . 5 . . 19
40 Zambia 181 1,180 49 37 9 12 5 9 10 II 27 31
Middle-income economies
Lower-middle-income
41 Boliviat 135 585 33 37 34 8 1 1 6 6 26 47
42 Côted'voire 149 . . 27 16 10 . . 5 42
43 Senegalt' 141 775 51 . . 19 . . 2 . . 6 . . 22
44 Philippines" 1,665 11,160 39 36 8 10 8 8 13 12 32 34
45 Papua New Guineat 35 320 23 1 35 . . 4 37 .
46 Cameroont' 119 1,363 50 61 15 -13 4 5 3 5 27 42
47 Guatemala' . . . . 42 43 14 9 4 3 12 16 27 28
48 Dominic9n Rep." 275 955 74 . . 5 . . I . . 6 . . 14
49 Ecuador 306 2,091 43 31 14 13 3 7 8 II 32 39
50 Monxcot' 641 4,886 31 25 6 16 . . 22

51 Jordan 441 21 26 14 7 7 4 6 15 52 49
52 Tajilcstan .. ..
53 Pens 1,430 . . 25 23 14 14 7 10 7 10 47 43
54 El Salvador1' 194 1,008 40 . . 30 . . 3 . . 8 . . 18
55 Congo" 220 65 58 4 4 1 3 8 10 22 24
56 Syrian Arab Rep." . . . . 37 24 40 31 3 6 2 5 20 34
57 Colombia 1,487 8,192 31 30 20 15 8 10 II 14 29 31
58 Paraguay° 99 994 56 . . 16 I 5 . . 21
59 Uzbekistan .. ..
60 Jamaicat' 221 793 46 7 II 5 . . 30
61 Romania . 13 . 19 25 5 38
62 Namibia . . 77 . 0
63 Tunisia 121 1,869 29 17 18 19 4 6 13 9 36 49
64 Kyrgyzstjs .. .. .. ..
65 Thailand 1,130 20,926 43 29 13 25 9 12 6 3 29 31
66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

248


--- Page 263 ---
Distribution of manufacturing value added (percent; current prices)

Value added in Food, Machinery
manufacturing (millionsof beverages, Textiles and and transport
current dollars) and tobacco clothing equipment Chemicals Othera
/970 /990 1970 /990 /970 1990 1970 1990 1970 1990 1970 1990
67 Azerbaijan . . . .
68 Thrkmenistan . . . . . .
69 Turkey 1.930 22,685 26 16 15 14 8 17 7 II 45 43
70 PoIand' 20 21 19 9 24 26 8 7 28 37
71 Bulgaria . . . . . . . . .
72 Costa Ricat 203 1,071 48 47 12 8 6 6 7 9 28 30
73 Algeria 682 4,816 32 20 . 9 . 4 . 35
74 Panamab 127 . 41 52 9 6 1 3 5 8 44 31
75 Armenia . . . . . .
76 Chile 2,088 . 17 24 12 7 II 5 5 9 55 56
77 Iran, Islamic Rep 1,501 8,819 30 . 20 . 18 6 . 26
78 Moldova . . .
79 Ukraine . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 26 496 75 23 6 50 5 3 3 5 12 19
81 Czechoslovakia1' . 9 10 12 II 34 35 6 7 39 37
82 Kazakhstn . . . .
83 Malaysia 500 . 26 13 3 6 8 31 9 II 54 39
Upper-middle-income
84 Botswanat' 5 128 . 52 . 8 . 9 . 31
85 SouthAfrica 3,892 23,197 IS 14 13 8 17 18 10 II 45 50
86 Lithuania . . .
87 Hungary" . . 8,831 12 10 13 9 28 27 8 13 39 41
88 Venezuela' 2,163 8,109 30 17 13 5 9 5 8 9 39 64
89 Argentina 5,523 . 18 20 17 10 17 13 8 12 40 44
90 Umguay 619 2,173 34 32 21 18 7 9 6 10 32 31
91 Brazil 10,421 108,789 16 13 13 12 22 23 10 12 39 40
92 Mexico' 8,449 55,621 28 22 15 9 13 15 II 14 34 40
93 Belarus . . . . . .
94 Russian Federation . . . .
95 Latvia . . 3,825
96 TrinidqdandTobago 198 435 18 3 . 7 2 70
97 Gabon" 22 264 37 . 7 . 6 . 6 . 44
98 Estonia . . . . . . .
99 Portugal1' . . . 18 18 19 20 13 14 10 10 39 39
100 Omarit 0 396 . . . . . .
101 PuertoRico 1,190 12,181 . 15 . . 5 . 18 . 45 . . 17
102 Korea,Rep.b 1,880 70,497 26 II 17 13 11 32 II 9 36 35
103 Greece 1,642 8,291 20 22 20 21 13 12 7 8 40 38
104 Saudi Arabiat' 372 7,962 . 7 . . 1 . 4 . 39 . . 50
105 Yugoslavia 10 16 15 19 23 24 7 8 45 31
Low-and middle-iacome
Sub-Saharan Africa 3,046
East Asia & Pacific 36,524 287,606
South Asia 10,362 59,372
Europe and Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa 4,797 40,563
Latin America & Caribbean 36,590 I 254,873
Severely indebted 35,985 277,462
High-income economies 605,102 IOECD members 599,875 1

106 Ireland 786 1,535 31 26 19 4 13 32 7 15 30 23
107 tlsraelt' . . . . IS 13 14 9 23 32 7 10 41 37
108 New Zealandb 1,811 7,572 24 26 13 9 15 14 4 6 43 46
109 Spain" . . 124,454 13 18 15 8 16 25 11 10 45 38
110 tHongKong 1,013 11,403 4 7 41 38 16 20 2 2 36 33
Ill ISingaporeb 379 10,351 12 4 5 3 28 53 4 10 51 29
112 UnitedKingdom 35,415 . . 13 13 9 5 31 32 10 II 37 38
113 Aus1ra1iat 9,551 44,589 16 18 9 7 24 19 7 8 43 48
114 Italy" 29,093 242,899 10 8 13 13 24 33 13 10 40 36
115 Netherlandsb 8,861 58,147 17 16 8 3 27 25 13 18 36 39
116 Belgium" . . 43,260 17 17 13 8 25 23 9 II 37 41
117 Austria" 4,873 41,526 17 15 12 6 19 28 6 7 45 44
118 Franceb . 251,143 12 13 10 6 26 31 8 9 44 41
119 Canada 16,782 16 14 8 6 23 26 7 10 46 44
120 United Statest) 254,858 . . 12 12 8 5 31 31 10 12 39 40
121 Germany" 70,888 460,983 13 9 8 4 32 42 9 12 38 32
122 Denmark 2,929 21,376 20 21 8 4 24 23 8 II 40 40
123 Finland 2,588 26,170 13 13 10 4 20 25 6 8 51 51
124 Norway 2,416 14,472 15 21 7 2 23 24 7 9 49 44
125 Sweden . . 45,021 10 10 6 2 30 32 5 9 49 47
126 Japa&' 73,342 849,308 8 9 8 5 34 39 II 10 40 37
127 Swi1zer1andt . 10 . . 7 . . 31 9 . . 42
World 754,620 1Fuel exporters 6,221 1 41,957

a. Includes unallocated data; see the technical notes. b. Value added in manufacturing data are at purchaser values. c. World Bank estimates. d. Data refer to the
Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

249


--- Page 264 ---
Table 7. Manufacturing earnings and output

Earnings per employee Total earnings as a Gross output per employee
Growth rate Index (1980= IIX)) percentageofvalue added (1980=1(X))
1970-80 1980-90 1988 1989 1990 1970 1988 1989 1990 1970 1988 1989 1990
Low-income economies
China and India
Other low-income

1 Mozambique 29
2 Tanzania -13.5 42 25
3 Ethiopia 0.5 ib 9 24 20 19 19 61 110 112 103
4 Uganda
5 Bhutan
6 Guinea-Bissau .
7 Nepal . 26 .
8 Bunindi -7.5
9 Chad ..
10 Madagascar -0.8 66 56 36 37 106 60
II SierraLeone . . .
12 Bangladesh- -3.0 0.6 99 98 95 26 34 34 33 206 110 III 113
13 La0PDR ..
14 Malawi -0.8 37 126
15 Rwanda 22
16 Mali . 46 139
17 BurkinaFaso 11.7 . -
18 Niger - . . 6 . .
19 India 0.4 3.4 127 134 - . 47 48 47 . - 83 175 179 . -
20 Kenya -3.4 -0.7 101 97 92 50 44 43 42 43 202 218 235

21 Nigeria -0.8 . . - 18 . . 182 .
22 China . - 3.5 220 244 251
23 Haiti -3.3 4.6 157 .
24 Benin
25 Central African Rep. . . . . . 124 160
26 Ghana -14.8 7.8 23 - . 193 . -
27 Pakistan 3.4 6.6 159 21 22 51 164
28 logo . . . -
29 Guinea . . . .
30 Nicaragua -2.0 - . 16 .... 210 -

31 Sn Lanka 1.8 106 100 18 18 . . 70 137 134
32 Mauritania
33 Yemen, Rep.
34 Honduras 40 36
35 Lesotho
36 Indoneaia 5.2 5.1 149 155 186 26 23 20 21 42 180 204 211
37 Eyp1, Arab Rep. 4.1 -2.1 94 91 - 54 37 35 89 206 220 -
38 Zimbabwe 1.6 0.5 107 115 112 43 35 35 34 98 124 128 135
39 Sudan . . - . 31
40 Zambia -3.2 3.1 168 125 98 34 27 27 27 109 128 93
Middle-income economies
Lower-middle-income

41 Bolivia 0.0 -6.4 64 55 49 43 27 27 27 65 41
42 Cbte d'Ivoire -0.9 . . - . 27 52
43 Senegal -4.9 0.5
44 Philippines -3.7 5.6 154 160 174 21 24 23 23 104 100 112 119
45 PapuaNewGuinea 2.9 -1.5 - - 40 -
46 Cameroon 3.2 - . 72 30 - 47 45 81 . . 153 184
47 Guatemala -3.2 -1.9 89 100 . - - 19 20 . .
48 Dominican Rep. -1.1 . . 35 63
49 Ecuador 3.3 -1.5 95 80 96 27 33 33 41 83 114 101 112
50 Morocco -3.5 - - . . 89

51 Jordan 8.6 -3.9 101 74 63 37 23 25 24
52 lajikistan . - . .
53 Peru . - -3.5 71 . 14 . - 80
54 ElSalvador 2.4 . . . . 28 71
55 Congo -2.6 34 43 .
56 Syrian Arab Rep. 2.6 -5.4 64 66 65 33 27 28
57 Colombia -0.2 1.6 114 117 116 25 15 15 86 148 158 164
58 Paraguay
59 Uzbekistan
60 Romania 39

61 Namibia
62 Tunisia 4.2 -- 44 95.::.
63 Jamaica -0.2 -0.8 101 - . 43 99 78 -
64 Kyrgyzstan
65 Thailand 0.3 5.9 160 160 158 25 28 28 28 77 109 112 113
66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

250


--- Page 265 ---
Earnings per employee Total earnings as a Gross output per employee
Growth rage Index (1980- 1(h)) percentage ofvalue added (1980100)
1970-80 1980-90 1988 1989 1990 1970 1988 1989 1990 1970 1988 1989 1990
67 Azerbaijan
68 Turkmenistan . . . .
69 Turkey 6.1 -1.2 80 100 98 26 15 19 19 108 166 181 195
70 Poland 5.5 0.1 103 114 78 24 23 19 17
71 Bulgaria . . . .
72 Costa Rica . . -2.2 41 38 39 39
73 Algeria -1.0 . 45 120
74 Panama 0.2 2.2 123 126 134 32 37 37 37 67 73 74 81
75 Armenia . . . . .
76 Chile 8.1 -1.0 103 106 106 19 16 15 15 60 .
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 7.9 -8.2 . . . . 25 84
78 Moldova . . . . . . .
79 Ukraine . . . .
80 Mauritius 1.8 -0.1 98 97 101 34 45 45 46 139 69 75 84
81 Czechoslovakia 2.3 0.4 106 107 100 49 39 42 43 . . 131 129
82 Kazakhstan . . . .
83 Malaysia 2.0 2.6 126 128 128 29 27 26 27 96
Upper-middle-income
84 Botswana 2.6 -5.5 66 . . 35 . . . . 67 .
85 SouthAfrica 2.7 0.2 104 106 106 46 47 47 . 64 88 88
86 Lithuania . . . .
87 Hungaly 3.6 2.3 125 127 120 28 39 36 40 41 105 103 100
88 Venezuela 4.9 -5.2 80 63 58 31 28 21 16 103 111 103 107
89 Argentina -2.1 -0.8 94 75 . . 28 20 16 75 74 73
90 Uruguay . . 0.8116 107 . . 26 26 . . . Ill 112
91 Brazil 4.0 4.8 161 163 121 22 20 21 20 71 123 124 120
92 Mexico 1.2 -3.9 67 72 75 44 18 19 20 77 119 132 138
93 Belanis . . . .
94 Russian Federation
95 Latvia
96 Trinidad and Tobago -o.
97 Gabon
98 Estonia
99 Portugal 2.5 0.7 103 103 106 34 36 36 36
100 Oman ..
101 PuertoRico . . . . . 21 22 . .
102 Korea Rep. 10.0 7.4 161 191 189 25 28 31 31 40 177 193 204
103 Greece 4.9 0.6 104 112 110 32 39 40 40 56 109 115
104 Saudi Arabia . . . . 26
105 Yugoslavia 1.3 -0.7 88 102 . . 39 26 26 59 97 75
Low- and middle-incomeSub-Saharan Africa

East Asia & Pacific
South Asia
Europe and Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa
Latin America & Caribbean
Severely indebted
High-income economiesOECD members

106 Ireland 4.1 1.9 Ill 112 114 49 29 27 26
107 tlsrael 8.8 -3.6 95 71 72 36 62 37 36
108 New Zealand 1.2 -0.7 94 90 95 62 55 53 55 141 140
109 Spain 4.4 0.9 106 109 109 52 38 39 39
110 tHong Kong 6.4 4.9 143 150 147 . . 55 55 55
Ill fSingapore 2.9 5.0 149 165 175 36 28 30 32 73 122 129 135
112 UnitedKingdom 1.7 2.6 123 124 125 52 40 41 40
113 Australia 2.9 -0.3 103 101 96 53 47 45 45 . . 128 139 136
114 Italy 4.1 1.0 109 110 . . 41 41 41 . . 50 136 141
115 Netherlands 2.5 1.1 107 108 109 52 49 48 48
116 Belgium 4.7 0.1 99 101 104 46 41 40 41 . . 141 146 142
117 Austria 3.4 1.8 114 116 121 47 54 53 54 65 119 127 134
118 France . . 2.2117 121 123 63 63 63 . . 116 123 127
119 Canada 1.8 0.0 101 101 99 53 43 44 44 68 112
120 United States 0.1 0.7 107 106 104 47 36 35 36 64 .
121 Germanya 3.5 1.8 113 114 116 46 42 41 42 60 109 114 115
122 Denmark 2.5 0.6 105 104 . . 56 52 51 . . 64 103 107
123 Finland 2.6 2.8 122 126 130 47 44 43 47 73 132 140 148
124 Norway 2.6 1.6 110 110 112 50 56 54 57 74 118 127 135
125 Sweden 0.4 0.9 103 107 106 52 34 34 35 . . 126 131 132
126 Japan 3.1 2.0 117 120 121 32 34 33 33 48 120 131 137
127 Switzerland . .
World
Fuel exporters
a. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

251


--- Page 266 ---
Table 8. Growth of consumption and investment

Average annual growth rate (percent)
General government Private Gross domestic
coeswnption consumption, etc. investment
1970-80 1980-91 1970-80 /980-9! 1970-80 1980-91
Low-income economies 5.4 w 6.5 w 4.1 w 4.8 w 7.0 w 7.0 w
China and India 4.8 w 8.6 w 3.7 w 6.2 w 6.2 w 9.4 w
Other low-income 6.2 w 3.5 w 4.9 w 2.7 w 8.5 w 1.7 w
I Mozambique -2.1 1.4 3.0
2 Tanzania a 44 3.1
3 Ethiopia 2.4 2.1 8.3 5.2 -0.8 2.0
4 Uganda 0.9 3.3 11.9
5 Bhutan

6 Guinea-Bissau 1.3 3.1 -1.8 4.0 -1.7 4.3
7 Nepal
8 Burundi 35 16.3 2.7
9 Chad
10 Madagascar 1.5 -0.2 -0.8 0.4 2.6

11 Sierra Leone a -0.4 7.0 -1.3 -1.2 -5.3
12 Bangladesh a a 2.3 3.6 4.8 -1.0
13 Lao PDR
14 Malawi 5.8 3.5 2.7 4.2
15 Rwanda 7.5 6.8 4.3 -0.4 10.4 -1.0
16 Mali '.9 4.' 6.2 1.7 3.3 6.9
17 Burkina Faso 6.6 6.0 4.7 2.8 4.4 9.3
18 Niger 3.0 1.8 0.4 -0.9 7.6 -4.6
19 India 4.1 7.5 2.9 5.3 4.5 5.1
20 Kenya 9.2 3.4 6.4 5.l 2.4 0.6

21 Nigeria 11.4 -2.1 7.8 -1.9 11.4 -8.1
22 China 5.7 10.0 4.9 7.3 7.9 12.4
23 Haiti 1.6 -1.4 3.4 0.3 13.7 -3.4
24 Benin -1.9 0.3 3.2 0.9 11.4 -4.8
25 Central African Rep. -2.4 -0.9 5.2 1.9 -9.7 3.6

26 Ghana 5.1 0.5 1.7 2.6 -2.5 9.0
27 Pakistan 4.1 9.1 4.2 4.7 3.7 5.6
28 Togo 10.2 1.0 2.0 5.3 11.9 -0.7
29 Guinea
30 Nicaragua 10.7 -1.8

31 SriLanka 0.3 6.9 4.9 3.6 13.8 1.2
32 Mauritania 10.8 -4.7 0.2 3.7 19.8 -5.6
33 Yemen, Rep.
34 Honduras 2.0 2.8 91
35 Lesotho 17.8 2.9 10.6 -0.6 23.4 9.1

36 Indonesia 13.1 4.7 6.5 4.7 14.1 6.9
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 3.3 7.4 3.3 18.7 -0.1
38 Zimbabwe 12.1 10.1 3.8 2.8 -4.2 0.3
39 Sudan -1.5 6.9 0.8 8.2 -1.2
40 Zambia 1.4 -3.2 0.2 3.7 -10.9 0.2
Middle-income economies
Lower-middle-income iii w w - w

41 Bolivia 7.9 -1.2 4.5 2.2 2.3 -8.0
42 Côte d'Ivoire 12.1 -4.0 6.9 -1.7 12.6 -11.5
43 Senegal 5.9 2.5 3.0 2.6 0.3 3.7
44 Philippines 6.8 0.9 4.3 2.4 11.3 -1.8
45 Papua New Guinea -1.3 0.1 4.5 0.6 -5.4 -0.9

46 Cameroon 5.2 6.2 6.2 1.7 11.2 -5.4
47 Guatemala 6.5 2.2 5.3 1.2 7.9 -0.7
48 Dominican Rep. 2.7 0.2 5.8 1.7 9.4 4.5
49 Ecuador 14.5 -1.1 8.2 2.0 11.0 -2.4
50 Morocco 14.0 5.1 5.5 4.0 9.9 2.5

51 Jordan 1.7 1.9 -6.9
52 Tajikistan
53 Pent 4.0 2.2
54 El Salvador 6.8 2.8 4.2 0.6 7.3 2.3
55 Congo 4.1 3.3 1.5 3.1 1.5 -11.7

56 Syrian Arab Rep. -2.2 3.9 -6.8
57 Colombia 4.5 5.. 3.1 5o -0.2
58 Paraguay 4.8 1.6 8.6 1.7 18.6 0.3
59 Uzbekistan
60 Jamaica 1.4 1.8

61 Romania -2.1
62 Namibia 1.1 -5.0
63 Tunisia 3.7 8.6 3.3 6.8
64 Kyrgyzstan
65 Thailand 9.8 4.1 6.3

66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

252


--- Page 267 ---
Average annual growth rate (percent)
Genera! government Private Gross domestic
consusnption consumption, etc. tnvestment
1970-80 /980-91 1970-80 1980-91 1970-80 1980-91
67 Azerbaijan
68 Turkmenistan . . . . . . . . .
69 Thrkey 6.3 3.5 4.8 6.1 6.9 2.8
70 Poland 0.2 1.1 -0.2
71 Bulgaria . . 0.8 . . 6.5 -2.1
72 Costa Rica 6.6 1.2 4.8 3.4 9.2 4.4
73 Algeria 10.8 4.7 4.1 2.3 13.6 -3.2
74 Panama 5.8 0.7 4.4 1.3 0.3 -7.5
75 Armenia .. .. ..
76 Chile 2.4 0.2 -0.5 2.2 1.0 5.1
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 10.8 -3.8 2.3 5.5 10.4 -5.4
78 Moldova .
79 Ukraine .. .. ..
80 Mauritius 9.8 3.2 9.2 6.4 10.0 11.2
81 Czechoslovakia 2.6 1.7 0.2
82 Kazakhstan .. .. ..
83 Malaysia 9.3 3.2 7.5 5.1 10.8 4.4
Upper-middle-income
84 Botswana 15.4 12.5 10.7 5.6 6.9 0.4
85 SouthAfrica 5.5 3.4 2.3 1.8 2.5 -3.9
86 Lithuania . . . . . . . . .
87 Hungary 2.5 2.2 3.6 0.2 7.5 -1.6
88 Venezuela . . 2.5 . . 1.7 7.1 -3.9
89 Argentina 3.8 -9.3 2.4 0.0 3.1 -6.9
90 Uruguay 4.0 2.1 -1.9 1.0 . . -5.9
91 Brazil 6.0 8.7 8.0 1.6 8.9 -0.1
92 Mexico 8.3 1.8 5.9 1.8 8.3 -1.9
93 Belarus
94 Russian Federation
95 Latvia . . . . . . , . .
96 Trinidadandlobago 9.0 1.5 6.3 -7.4 14.2 -7.1
97 Gabon 10.2 -1.1 7.3 -2.6 13.6 -6.2
98 Estonia . . . . . . . . .
99 Portugal 8.6 2.5 4.5 5.0 3.1 -2.6
100 Oman . . .
101 PuertoRico . . 5.1 . , 2.7 . . 7.0
102 Korea, Rep. 7.4 6.6 7.4 8.3 14.2 13.0
103 Greece 6.9 2.3 4.0 2.5 2.1 1.6
104 Saudi Arabia . . . . . . . . .
105 Yugoslavia 4.5 0.3 5.6 -0.1 7.2 -3.3
Low- and middle-income 4.0 w 3.4w .. 1.4wSub-Saharan Africa 0.9 w 5.1 w 0.7 w 7.3 w -3.3 w

East Asia & Pacific 7.5 w 6.6 w 5.8 w 6.5 w 9.7 w 10.1 w
South Asia 4.0 w 8.1 w 3.0 w 5.1 w 4.6 w 4.9 w
Europe and Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa
Latin America & Caribbean 6.0w 4.3w 5.5w 1.4w 7.0w -1.3 w
Severely indebted 7.3w 3.9w 5.7 w 1.7 w 8.2 w -1.8 w
High-income economies 2.6w 2.5w 3.5w 2.8w 2.0w 4.0w
OECD members 2.6w 2.5w 3.5w 2.8w 1.9w 4.0w
106 Ireland 6.0 -0.1 4.3 2.2 5.2 0.0
107 tlsrael 3.9 0.6 5.8 5.2 0.6 3.6
108 New Zealand 3.6 1.1 1.7 1.9 -1.0 2.9
109 Spain 5.8 5.2 3.8 3.2 1.5 6.0
110 tHongKong 8.3 5.4 9.0 6.9 12.1 4.4
Ill iSingapore 6.2 6.5 5.8 6.0 7.8 4.3
112 UnitedKingdom 2.4 1.2 1.8 3.8 0.2 5.3
113 Australia 5.1 3.4 3.2 3.2 1.9 2.2
114 Italy 3.0 2.6 4.0 3.1 1.6 2.1
115 Netherlands 2.9 1.4 3.9 1.8 0.1 2.4
116 Belgium 4.1 0.5 3.8 1.9 2.1 3.8
117 Austria 3.8 1.3 3.8 2.6 2.7 3.0
118 France 3.4 2.2 3.3 2.4 1.4 2.9
119 Canada 3.8 2.4 5.3 3.4 5.6 4.5
120 UnitedStates 1.0 3.2 3.3 2.4 2.4 3.3
121 Germanyb 3.3 1.3 3.3 2.2 0.6 2.6
122 Denmark 4.1 0.9 2.0 1.7 -0.8 3.2
123 Finland 5.3 3.6 2.8 4.3 0.5 2.0
124 Norway 5.4 2.9 3.8 1.2 3.3 -0.2
125 Sweden 3.3 1.5 1.9 2.0 -0.7 3.5
126 Japan 4.9 2.4 4.7 3.7 2.5 6.0
127 Switzerland 1.8 3:0 1.1 1.7 -1.8 4.5
World 3.0w 2.7w 3.7w 3.0w 2.8w 3.4w
Fuel exporters
a. General government consumption figures are not available separately; they are included in private consumption, etc. b. Data refer to the Federal Republic of
Germany before unification.

253


--- Page 268 ---
Table 9. Structure of demand

Distribution of gross domestic product (percent)
General Exports ofgoods
government Private Gross domestic Gross domestic and nonfactor Resource
consumption consumption, etc. investment savings services balance
1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 1991
Low-income economies 10w lOw 71w 64w 21w 27w 20w 27w 7w 19w -1w -1wChina and India 8w lOw 68w 59w 24w 29w 24w 31w 3w 16w Ow 1w

Other low-income 13w 12w 76w 71w 15w 22w 12w 17w 14w 26w -4w -6w

1 Mozambique 20 90 42 -to 23 -52
2 Tanzania Il 16 69 96 23 22 20 -II 26 20 -2 -33
3 Ethiopia 10 21 79 78 II 10 II 0 II 8 0 -10
4 Uganda a 8 84 93 13 12 164 -1 22 7 3 -13
5 Bhutan 0 S S S S S S 29 -12

6 Guinea-Bissau 20 17 77 85 30 30 3 -3 4 13 -26 -33
7 Nepal a 10 97 85 6 19 3 5 5 14 -3 -14
8 Bunsndi 10 16 87 85 5 17 4 -1 II 10 -1 -18
9 Chad 27 20 64 97 18 8 10 -17 23 19 -8 -25
10 Madagascar 13 9 79 92 10 8 7 -1 19 17 -2 -9
II Sierra leone 12 II 74 85 17 II IS 4 30 19 -2 -6
12 Bangladesh 13 II 79 86 II 10 7 3 8 9 -4 -7
13 LaoPDR II 15 -14
14 Malawi 16 14 73 77 26 20 II 9 24 24 -15 -II
15 Rwanda 9 20 88 78 7 13 3 I 12 12 -4 -II
16 Mali 10 12 80 82 16 23 10 6 13 17 -6 -16
17 BurkinaFaso 9 17 92 79 12 23 -1 4 7 12 -12 -19
18 Niger 9 8 89 86 tO 9 3 7 II 16 -7 -3
19 India 9 12 75 69 17 20 16 19 4 9 -1 -1
20 Kenya 16 17 60 63 24 21 24 19 30 27 -1 -1

21 Nigeria 8 13 80 65 IS 16 12 23 8 36 -3 6
22 China 8 9 64 52 28 36 29 39 3 20 0 3
23 Haiti 10 . . 83 . . II . . 7 . . 14 . . -4
24 Benin 10 12 85 85 12 12 5 3 22 24 -6 -9
25 CentralAfrican Rep. 21 15 75 86 19 II 4 -I 28 IS -15 -12
26 Ghana 13 9 74 83 14 16 13 8 21 17 -I -8
27 Pakistan 10 13 81 75 16 19 9 12 8 16 -7 -7
28 logo 16 15 58 74 IS 19 26 10 50 42 II -9
29 Guinea . . 10 . . 76 . . 18 . . 14 . . 26 . . -4
30 Nicaragua 9 21 75 89 18 21 16 -10 26 22 -2 -31
31 SriLanka 12 tO 72 77 19 23 16 13 25 28 -3 -10
32 Mauritania 14 9 56 81 22 16 30 tO 41 50 8 -6
33 Yemen,Rep. . . 28 . . 70 . . 13 . . 2 . . 29 . . -Il
34 Honduras 11 10 74 70 21 24 15 20 28 31 -6 -4
35 Lesotho 12 18 120 95 12 93 -32 -13 II 13 -44 -106
36 Indonesia 8 9 78 55 16 35 14 36 13 27 -2
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 25 10 66 83 14 20 9 7 14 30 -5 -13
38 Zimbabwe 12 21 67 61 20 22 21 18 . . 33 . . -4
39 Spdan 21 . . 64 . . 14 . . IS . . 16 . . 2
40 Zambia 16 10 39 78 28 13 45 12 54 29 17 -1
Middle-income economiesLower-middle-income

41 Bolivia 10 15 66 77 24 14 24 9 25 18 0 -5
42 COted'Ivoire 14 18 57 67 22 10 29 15 36 37 7 5
43 Senegal 15 13 74 78 16 14 II 9 27 25 -5 -5
44 Philippines 9 9 69 72 21 20 22 19 22 30 I -1
45 PapuaNewGuinea 30 24 64 63 42 29 6 13 18 39 -35 -16
46 Camemon 12 14 70 71 16 IS 18 15 26 18 2 0
47 Guatemala 8 6 78 84 13 14 14 10 19 18 I -4
48 Dominican Rep. 12 9 77 77 19 17 12 14 17 27 -7 -3
49 Ecuador II 8 75 70 18 22 14 22 14 31 -5 0
50 Momcco 12 15 73 68 18 22 15 17 18 22 -4 -6
SI Jonlan 23 78 . . 21 . . -1 . . 57 . . -22
52 Tajikistan .. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .
53 Peru 12 5 70 82 16 16 17 13 18 9 2 -3
54 ElSalvador II II 76 88 13 14 13 1 25 IS 0 -12
55 Congo 17 22 82 58 24 II 1 20 35 42 -23 9
56 SynanArabRep. 17 72 . . 14 . . 10 . . 18 . -4
57 Colombia 9 11 72 66 20 15 18 23 14 21 -2 8
58 Paraguay 9 8 77 75 15 25 14 17 15 26 -1 -8
59 Uzbekistan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
60 Jamaica 12 12 61 68 32 20 27 20 33 64 -4 0
61 Romania 14 57 34 29 . . 17 . . -5
62 Namibia . . 27 . . 64 . . 14 . . 9 . . 58 . . -5
63 Tunisia 17 16 66 66 21 23 17 18 22 39 -4 -5
64 Kyrgyzstan . . 16 . . 50 . . 34 . . 34 . . . . . . -I
65 Thailand II 10 68 58 26 39 21 32 15 38 -4 -7
66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figureu in italics ate for yearn other than those specified.

254


--- Page 269 ---
Distribution of gross domestic product (percent)
General Exports ofgood.s
government Private Gross domestic Gross domestic and nonfactor Resource
consumption consumption, etc. investment savings services balance

1970 199! 1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 199!
67 Azerbaijan
68 Turkmenistan . . . . . . . . . .
69 Thrkey 13 Ii 70 66 20 20 17 17 6 20 2 -3
70 Poland 20 58 21 22 20 0
71 Bulgaria . . 13 . . 73 . . 13 . . 15 . . 63 . 2
72 Costakica 13 16 74 61 21 23 14 22 28 39 -7 -1
73 Algeria 15 16 56 48 36 30 29 36 22 31 -7 6
74 Panama 15 21 61 72 28 15 24 7 38 29 -3 -8
75 Armenia . . 0 0 . . . . . 0
76 Chile 13 10 70 66 16 19 17 24 15 36 1 5
77 Iran,lslamicRep. 16 13 59 77 19 20 25 10 24 20 6 -II
78 Moldova . . . . . .
79 Ukraine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 14 12 75 65 10 28 11 23 43 64 1 -5
81 Czechoslovakia a . . 67 . . 31 . . . . . . 42 . . 2
82 Kazakhstan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
83 Malaysia 16 14 58 56 22 36 27 30 42 81 4 -5
Upper-middle-income 11 w 66 w 24 w . 23 w 16 w -1 w
84 Botswana 20 . 78 42 2 23 -41
85 South Africa 12 21 63 58 28 16 24 21 22 25 -4 5
86 Lithuania . . 16 . 63 . . 21 . . 21 . . . .
87 Hungaly 10 13 58 67 34 19 31 19 30 34 -2 0
88 Venezuela II 9 52 67 33 19 37 23 21 31 4 5
89 Argentina 10 4 68 81 22 12 22 15 9 II a 2
90 Uruguay 19 13 83 70 a 13 -I 17 15 24 -1 4
91 Brazil Il 9 69 70 21 20 20 30 7 10 0 0
92 Mexico 7 8 75 72 21 23 19 20 6 16 -3 -3
93 Belanis . . a 71 30 . . 50
94 Russian Federation . . 20 . . 41 . . 39 . . 40 . . . . . . 0
95 Latvia . 10 . . 46 . . 34 . . 43 . . 35 . 10
96 TrinidadandTobago 13 15 60 59 26 18 27 26 43 41 I 8
97 Gabon 20 17 37 41 32 26 44 42 50 50 12 16
98 Estonia . 10 65 . . 29 . . 25 . . . . 0 -4
99 Portugal 14 . . 67 . 26 . . 20 . . 24 -7
100 Oman 13 35 19 38 14 17 68 26 74 . . 54 10
101 Puerto Rico 15 15 74 64 29 16 10 22 44 76 -18 6
102 Korea,Rep. 10 Il 75 53 25 39 15 36 14 29 -10 -3
103 Greece 13 20 68 72 28 17 20 8 10 23 -8 -9
104 Saudi Arabia 20 34 . 16 . 47 0 59 31
105 Yugoslavia 18 7 55 72 32 21 27 21 18 24 -5 -1
Low- and middle-income 11 w 68 w 23 w 24 w 21 w 13w -I wSub-Saharan Africa 12w 15w 73 w 71 w 17w 16 w 16 w 14 w 21 w 28 w -1 w -3 w

East Asia & Pacific 9w 10w 66 w 55 w 26 w 35 w 25 w 36 w 7w 30 w -I w -1 w
South Asia 10 w 12w 76 w 72 w 16w 19 w 14w 17 w 5w lOw -2 w -3 w
Europe and Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa w 57 w 19w 25 w 29 w 5w
Latin America & Caribbean 10 w 13w 70 w 21 w 19 w 20 w 13w 18 w -2 w -1 w
Severely indebted lOw .. 72w 22 w 20w 21w 16w
High-income economies 16 w 17 w 60 w 61 w 23 w 21 w 24 w 22 w 14 w 20 w I w I w
OECD members 16 w 17 w 60 w 61 w 23 w 21 w 24 w 22 w 13 w 19 w 1 w I w
106 Ireland 15 16 69 56 24 19 16 28 37 62 -8 9
107 flsrael 34 28 58 58 27 23 8 14 25 28 -20 -9
108 New Zealand 13 17 65 63 25 18 22 20 23 28 -3 2
109 Spain 10 16 64 62 27 25 26 22 13 17 -1 -3
110 tHong Kong 7 8 68 60 21 29 25 32 92 141 4 3
Ill tSingapore 12 II 70 43 39 37 18 47 102 185 -20 9
112 UnitedKingdorn 18 21 62 64 20 16 21 15 23 24 I -1
113 Australia 14 19 59 62 27 19 27 19 14 18 0 0
114 Italy 13 17 60 62 27 20 28 20 16 20 0 0
115 Netherlands 15 14 57 59 30 21 28 26 42 54 -2 5
116 Belgium 13 15 60 63 24 20 27 23 52 73 2 3
117 Austria 15 18 55 55 30 26 31 26 31 41 I
118 France 15 18 58 60 27 21 27 21 16 23 1 0
119 Canada 19 21 57 60 22 20 24 19 23 25 3 -I
120 UnitedStates 19 18 63 67 18 15 18 15 6 II 0 -1
121 Germanyt 16 18 55 54 28 21 30 28 21 34 2 6
122 Denmark 20 25 57 52 26 17 23 23 28 36 -3 6
123 Finland 14 24 57 56 30 21 29 20 26 22 -1 -1
124 Norway 17 21 54 51 30 19 29 28 42 45 -1 9
125 Sweden 22 27 54 54 25 17 24 19 24 28 -1 2
126 Japan 7 9 52 57 39 32 40 34 11 10 1 2
127 Switzerland 10 14 59 57 32 27 31 29 33 35 -2
World 15 w 16 w 61 w 62 w 23 w 22 w 24 w 23 w 14 w 21 w 0 w I wFuel exporters 14 w . . 55 w 51 w 23 w . . 31 w . . 29 w 8 w

a. General government consumption figures are not available separately; they are included in private consumption. etc. b. Data refer to the Federal Republic of
Germany before unification.

255


--- Page 270 ---
Table 10. Structure of consumption

Percentage share of total household consu,npttonu
Food Gross rents, Other consumption
Cereals Clothing Ji4el and power Transport and Other
and and Fuel and Medical co,nmuntcatton consusner
Total tubers footwear Total power care Education Total Automobiles Total durables
Low-income economies
China and India
Other low-income

I Mozambique
2 Tanzania 64 32 10 8 l0
3 Ethiopia 49 24 6 14 17
4 Uganda
5 Bhutan

6 Guinea-Bissau S
7 Nepal 57 38 12 14 6 3 I I 0 3
8 Burundi S S S
9 Chad S S S
10 Madagascar 59 26 6 12 6 2 4 4 I 14
II Sierra Leone 56 22 4 15 6 2 3 12 8
12 Bangladesh 59 36 8 17 7 2 I 3 0 0 3
13 LaoPDR
14 Malawi 30 9 9 9 5 4 0 10 3 27 3
IS Rwanda 29 10 II 15 6 3 6 9 27 9

16 Mali 57 22 6 8 6 2 4 10 I 12
17 Burkina Faso S 0 -
18 Niger
19 India 52 18 II 10 3 3 4 7 0 13 3
20 Kenya 38 16 7 12 2 3 10 8 I 22 6

21 Nigeria 48 18 5 4 1 3 4 3 I 35 6
22 China 61b /3 8 3 I I / /5
23 Haiti 0 S S S S
24 Benin 37 12 14 12 2 5 4 14 2 IS 5
25 Central African Rep.
S
26 Ghana 50 13 11 3 Sc 3 /5
27 Pakistan 37 12 6 16 13 26
28 Togo
29 Guinea
30 Nicaragua

31 Sri Lanka 43 18 7 6 3 2 3 IS I 24 5
32 Mauritania
S
33 Yemen, Rep. . . S . . S
34 Honduras 39 . . 9 2! 8 5 3 . IS
35 Lcsotho . S S ' . . . . . . .
36 Indonesia 48 21 7 13 7 2 4 4 0 22 5
37 Egypt,ArabRep. 49 10 II 9 3 3 6 4 1 18 3
38 Zimbabwe 40 9 II 12 5 4 7 6 1 20 3
39 Sudan 60 . . 5 /5 4 5 3 2 . /1
40 Zambia 36 8 10 Il 4 8 14 5 I 16 I
Middle-income economies
Lower-middle-income
4! Bolivia 33 . 9 /2 / 5 7 /2 22
42 Côte d'Ivoire 39 13 9 5 I 9 6 10 . . 22 3
43 Senegal 49 15 II II 4 2 6 5 0 14 2
44 Philippines 51 21 4 19 5 2 4 4 2 16 2
45 Papua New Guinea . . . . . S S S

46 Cameroon 24 7 7 16 3 12 9 12 I 20 3
47 Guatemala 36 lO lO 14 5 13 4 3 0 20 5
48 Dominican Rep. 46 13 3 IS 5 8 3 4 0 21 8
49 Ecuador 30 . . 10 7' 1d 6c 12c . 30
50 Morocco 38 12 II 9 2 5 8 8 I 21 5
SI Jordan 35 5 6 5 8 6 . . 35
52 Tajikistan S S S S S S S . S S S S S S S
53 Peru 35 8 7 IS 3 4 6 10 0 24 7
54 ElSalvador 33 12 9 7 2 8 5 10 I 28 7
55 Congo 37 16 6 9 3 6 8 15 1 19 4

56 Syrian Arab Rep. . . S S S S S S S S - S - -
57 Colombia 29 . . 6 12 2 7 6 13 - - 27
58 Paraguay 30 6 12 21 4 2 3 10 I 22
59 Uebekistan S S S S S S 5 0 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 . -
60 Jamaica 36 14 5 15 5 5 5 16 I 18

61 Romania
62 Namibia
63 Tunisia 37 7 10 13 4 7 10 7 I 18
64 Kyrgyzstan
65 Thailand 30 7 16 7 3 5 5 13 0 24
66 Georgia
Note.- For data comparability and coverage. see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

256


--- Page 271 ---
Percentage shareoftotal household consumption5
Food Gross rents, Other consumption
Cereals Clothing fuel and power Transport and Other
and and Fuel and Medical Comenuns Cation consumer
Total tubers footwear Total power Total Automobilescare Education Total durables
67 Azerbaijan
68 Turkmenistan . . . . . . . S . 0
69 Turkey 40 9 15 13 7 4 1 5 0 23
70 Poland 29 4 9 6 2 6 7 8 2 35 9
71 Bulgaria . . S . . . . . 0
72 Costa Rica 33 8 8 9 I 7 8 8 0 28 9
73 Algeria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
74 Panama 38 7 3 11 3 8 9 7 0 24 6
75 Armenia S S S . . . . . . .
76 Chile 29 7 8 13 2 5 6 11 0 29 5
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 37 10 9 23 2 6 5 6 I 14 5
78 Moldova . - . . . . .
79 Ukraine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 24 7 5 19 3 5 8 II 1 28 4
81 Czechoslovakia . . . . . . . . . . . . .
82 Kazakhstan .. .. .. .. ..
83 Malaysia 23 4 9 5 7 19 33
Upper-middle-income
84 Botswana 25 12 8 8 2 8 18 8 2 26 7
85 South Africa 34 7 12 . 51 17 26
86 Lithuania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - .
87 Hungary 25 3 9 9 5 5 7 9 2 36 8
88 Venezuela 23 . . 7 10 . . 8 Sc II . . 36
89 Argentina 35 4 6 9 2 4 6 13 0 26 6
90 Uruguay 31 7 7 12 2 6 4 13 0 27 5
91 Brazil 35 9 10 II 2 6 5 8 1 27 8
92 Mexico 35b 10 8 5 5 12 25
93 Belanis . . .
94 Russian Federation
95 Latvia S
96 TrinidadandTobago 19 3 14 18 8 i
97 Gabon
98 Estonia 0
99 Portugal 34 8 10 9 3 6 5 13 3 24 7
100 Oman
101 Puerto Rico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -
102 Korea,Rep. 35 14 6 Il 5 5 9 9 25 5
103 Greece 30 3 8 12 3 6 5 13 2 26 5
104 Saudi Arabia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
105 }ltgoslavia 27 4 10 9 4 6 5 II 2 32
Low- and middle-income
Sub-Saharan Africa
East Asia & Pacific
South Asia
Europe and Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa
Latin America & Caribbean
Severely indebted
High-income economiesOECI) members

106 Ireland 22 4 5 II 5 10 7 II 3 34 5
107 tlsrael 21 . . 5 20 2 9 12 10 . . 23
108 New Zealand 12 2 6 14 2 9 6 19 6 35 9
109 Spain 24 3 7 16 3 7 5 14 3 27 6
110 tHongKong 12 I 9 15 2 6 5 9 1 44 15
III tSingapore 19 . . 8 II . . 7 12 13 . . 30
112 United Kingdom 12 2 6 17 4 8 6 14 4 36 7
113 Australia 13 2 5 21 2 10 7 13 4 31 7
114 Italy 19 2 8 14 4 10 7 II 3 30 7
115 Netherlands 13 2 6 18 6 II 8 10 3 34 8
116 Belgium 15 2 6 17 7 10 9 II 3 31 7
117 Austria 16 2 9 17 5 10 8 15 3 26 7
118 France 16 2 6 17 5 13 7 13 3 30 7
119 Canada Il 2 6 21 4 5 12 14 5 32 8
120 United States 10 2 6 18 4 14 8 14 5 30 7
121 Germany5 12 2 7 18 5 13 6 13 4 31 9
122 Denmark 13 2 5 19 5 9 9 13 5 33 7
123 Finland 16 3 4 IS 4 9 8 14 4 35 6
124 Norway 15 2 6 14 5 II 8 14 6 32 7
125 Sweden 13 2 5 19 4 Il 8 II 2 32 7
126 Japan 17 4 6 17 3 10 7 9 1 34 6
127 Switzerland 17 . . 4 17 6 15 . . 9 38 .
World
Fuel exporters
a. Data refer to either 1980 or 1985. b. Includes beverages and tobacco. c. Refers to govemment expenditure. d. Excludes fuel. e. Includes fuel. f. Excludes
$overnment expenditure. g. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

257


--- Page 272 ---
Table 11. Central government expenditure

Percentageoftotal expenditure
Hoisting, Total Overall
amenities; expenditure surplus/deficit
social security Economic (percentage (percentage
Deft nse Education Health and welfare services Othera of GNP) ofGNP)
1980 1991 1980 199! 1980 199! 1980 199/ 1980 1991 1980 199) 1980 1991 1980 199!
Low-income economies
China and India
Other low-income
I Mozambique .... . S . . . . .
2 Tanzania 9.2 13.3 . . 6.0 . . 2.5 . 42.9 . 26.1 28.8 . . -8.4
3 Ethiopia 10.1 . . 3.7 . . 5.4 . 23.8 . . 57.0 . . 23.4 . . -4.5
4 Uganda 25.2 . . 14.9 . . 5.1 . . 4.2 . . 11.1 . . 39.5 . . 6.1 . . -3.1
5 Bhutan 0.0 0.0 12.8 10.7 5.0 4.8 4.9 8.2 56.8 48.2 20.5 28.2 40.6 43.3 0.9 -2.6
6 Guinea-Bissau . 4.2 . 2.7 . 1.4 . . . 91.7 . . 63.0 . . -17.7
7 Nepal 6.7 5.9 9.9 10.9 3.9 4.7 1.7 6.8 58.8 43.0 19.1 28.8 14.2 18.4 -3.0 -6.2
8 Bunindi . 21.7 . . -3.9
9 Chad . . . 31.2 -7.3
10 Madagascar . 6.6 1.5 . 35.9 . . 16.1 . . -5.9
II SierraLeone' 4.1 9.9 14.9 13.3 9.1 9.6 3.6 3.1 . 29.0 68.3 35.2 29.8 9.8 -13.2 -2.9
12 Bangladeshb 9.4 10.1 11.5 11.2 6.4 4.8 5.3 8.0 46.9 34.4 20.4 31.5 10.0 15.0 2.5 -0.4
13 La0PDR .. ..
14 Malawi' 12.8 5.4 9.0 8.8 5.5 7.4 1.6 3.2 43.7 35.0 27.3 40.2 37.6 29.2 -17.3 -1.9
15 Rwanda 13.1 18.8 . 4.5 . 4.1 . 41.4 . 18.0 . 14.3 . . -1.7

16 Mali 11.0 . . 15.7 . . 3.1 . . 3.0 . . 11.2 . . 56.0 21.6 . . -4.7
17 BurkinaFaso 17.0 . . 15.5 . . 5.8 . . 7.6 . . 19.3 . . 34.8 . . 14.1 0.3
18 Niger 3.8 . . 18.0 . . 4.1 . . 3.8 . . 32.4 . . 38.0 . . 18.7 . . -4.8
19 India 19.8 17.0 1.9 2.5 1.6 1.6 4.3 6.9 24.2 20.8 48.3 51.2 13.2 17.5 -6.5 -7.0
20 Kenya' 16.4 10.0 19.6 19.9 7.8 5.4 5.1 3.9 22.7 20.7 28.2 40.1 26.1 28.3 -4.6 -5.8

21 Nigeria0 . . .
22 China . . . . . .
23 Haiti 9.6 . 6.6 4.5 . 5.0 . 28.0 . 46.3 17.5 . . -4.7
24 Benin . . . . . .
25 Central African Rep. 9.7 . 17.6 . 5.1 . 6.3 . 19.6 . 41.7 . 21.9 . . -3.5
26 Ghana' 3.7 . 22.0 . 7.0 . 6.8 . 20.7 . 39.8 . 10.9 . . -4.2
27 Pakistan 30.6 27.9 2.7 1.6 1.5 1.0 4.1 3.4 37.2 11.6 23.9 54.6 17.7 21.9 -5.8 -6.2
28 Togo 7.2 . 16.7 . 5.3 . 12.0 25.2 . 33.7 . 31.9 . . -2.0
29 Guinea . . . . . 24.9 . . -4.2
30 Nicaragua 11.0 11.6 . 14.6 . 7.4 . 20.6 . 34.9 32.6 33.8 -7.3 -15.2
31 SriLanka 1.7 9.4 6.7 8.3 4.9 4.8 12.7 18.4 l5.9 24.6 58.2 34.5 41.6 29.4 -18.4 -9.5
32 Mauritania
33 Yemen, Rep .
34 Honduras .. ..
35 Lesotho 0.0 6.5 15.3 21.9 6.2 11.5 1.3 5.5 35.9 3l.6 41.2 23.1 22.7 31.8 -3.7 -0.3
36 Indonesia 13.5 8.2 8.3 9.1 2.5 2.4 1.8 1.8 40.2 27.1 33.7 51.5 23.1 20.7 -2.3 0.4
37 Egypt, Arab Rep 11.4 12.7 8.1 13.4 2.4 2.8 l3.l 17.8 7.2 8.2 57.7 45.3 53.7 39.6 -12.5 -6.8
38 Zimbabwe 25.0 16.5 15.5 23.4 5.4 7.6 7.8 3.9 18.1 22.4 28.2 26.2 35.3 35.9 -11.1 -6.9
39 Sudant 13.2 . 9.8 . 1.4 . 0.9 19.8 . 54.9 . 19.8 . . -3.3
40 Zambiat' 0.0 . 11.4 . 6.1 . 3.4 32.6 . 4.6.6 . 40.0 21.9 -20.0 -5.0
Middle-income economies
Lower-middle-income
41 Bolivia . . 13.1 . . 18.7 . . 3.3 . . 18.8 . . 16.9 . . 29.3 29.0 18.8 0 -0.1
42 COted'lvoire 3.9 . . 16.3 . . 3.9 4.3 13.4 . . 58.1 . . 32.4 30.1 -1 1.1 -3.6
43 Senegal 16.8 . . 23.0 . . 4.7 . . 9.5 . . 14.4 . . 31.6 . . 23.9 . . 0.9
44 Philippines' 15.7 10.9 13.0 16.1 4.5 4.2 6.6 3.7 56.9 24.7 3.4 40.3 13.4 19.1 -1.4 -2.1
45 PapuaNewGuinea' 4.4 . . 16.5 . . 8.6 . . 2.6 22.7 . . 45.1 . . 35.2 . . -2.0
46 Camemon 9.1 6.7 12.4 12.0 5.1 3.4 8.0 8.7 24.0 48.1 41.4 21.2 15.5 22.3 0.5 -3.5
47 Guatemala . . 13.3 . . 19.5 . . 9.9 . . 7.8 . . 21.7 . . 27.8 14.4 12.0 -3.9 -1.8
48 DominicanRep. 7.8 4.8 12.6 10.2 9.3 14.0 13.8 20.2 37.1 36.5 19.3 /4.2 17.5 12.3 -2.7 0.6
49 Ecuador1' 12.5 12.9 34.7 18.2 7.8 11.0 1.3 2.5 21.1 11.8 22.6 43.6 15.0 16.0 -1.5 2.1
50 Monicco 17.9 . . 17.3 . . 3.4 . . 6.5 . . 27.8 . . 27.1 . . 34.2 . . -10
SI Jotlan 25.3 21.3 7.6 14.8 3.7 5.0 14.5 17.7 28.3 10.4 20.6 30.9 . . 41.4 . . -4.0
52 Tajiki5stan . . . . . . . .
53 Pent 21.0 16.4 15.6 21.1 5.6 5.6 0.0 0.5 22.1 . 35.7 56.4 20.4 8.8 -2.5 -0.5
54 El Salvador b 8.8 20.6 19.8 14.4 9.0 7.7 2.1 1.4 21.0 19.1 39.3 36.7 17.6 10.4 -5.9 -2.1
55 Congo 9.7 . 11.0 . 5.1 . 7.0 . 34.2 . 33.0 . 54.6 . . -5.8
56 SyrianArabRep. 35.8 31.5 5.5 7.4 0.8 1.9 11.3 3.3 41.1 30.7 5.4 25.2 48.1 24.3 -9.7 0.4
57 Colombia 6.7 . 19.1 . 3.9 . 21.2 . . 27.1 . . 22.0 . . 13.5 15.1 -1.8 2.0
58 Paraguay 12.4 13.3 12.9 12.7 3.6 4.3 19.2 14.8 18.9 12.8 33.0 42.1 9.8 9.4 0.3 3.0
59 Uzbekistan
60 Jamaica . . . . 45.7 -17.1

61 Romanja . 10.3 . 10.0 . 9.2 . . 26.6 . . 33.0 . 10.9 . . 37.0 . . 2.0
62 Namjbja . 6.5 . . 22.2 . 9.7 . . 14.8 . 17.3 . . 29.5 . . 48.2 . . -7.6
63 Tunisia 12.2 5.6 17.0 17.5 7.2 6.3 13.4 18.3 27.8 24.4 22.4 27.9 32.5 34.6 -2.9 -4.3
64 Kyrgyzslan .. ..
65 Thailand 21.7 17.1 19.8 20.2 4.1 7.4 5.1 5.9 24.2 24.3 25.1 25.1 19.1 15.5 -4.9 5.0
66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for yeara other than those specified.

258


--- Page 273 ---
Percentageoftotal expenditure
Housing, Total Overall
a,nenities; expenditure surplus/deficit
social security Economic (percentage (percentage
Deft nse Education Health and welfare services Other a ofGNP) ofGNP)
1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 199! 1980 199! 1980 1991
67 Azerbaijan
68 'l'urkmenistan . . . . . . .
69 Turkey 15.2 10.4 14.2 17.6 3.6 3.0 6.1 3.3 34.0 25.2 26.9 40.5 26.3 30.4 -3.8 -7.6
70 Poland . . . . .
71 Bulgaria . 5.6 . 6.2 . 4.8 . 23.9 . 46.6 . 12.8 . . 77.3 . . -9.9
72 CostaRica 2.6 24.6 19.1 28.7 32.0 9.5 13.3 18.2 8.6 16.4 27.0 26.3 25.9 -7.8 -1.4
73 Algeria . . . . . . .
74 Panama 0.0 5.3 13.4 /7/ 12.7 20.5 13.5 23.8 21.9 6.1 38.4 27.2 34.2 30.3 -5.8 3.5
75 Armenia . . . .
76 Chile 12.4 . 14.5 . 7.4 . 37.1 . 13.8 . 14.8 . 29.1 . . 5.6
77 Iran, Islamic Rep 15.9 9.6 21.3 20.9 6.4 7.9 8.7 15.5 24.0 16.1 23.7 29.9 35.7 22.8 -13.8 -2.8
78 Moldova . . .
79 Ukraine . . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 0.8 1.5 17.6 14.6 7.5 8.7 21.4 17.8 11.7 15.0 41.0 42.3 27.4 23.8 -10.4 0.0
81 Czechoslovakia . 7.1 . 1.9 . 0.4 . 27.0 . 40.2 . 23.4 . . 55.6 -6.9
82 Kazakhstan ..
83 Malaysia . . 29.6 30.6 -6.2 -2.3
Upper-middle-income
84 Botswanab 9.8 /3.3 22.2 20.5 5.4 5.! 7.9 16.2 26.9 16.8 27.9 28.2 36.5 41.9 -0.2 14.0
85 South Africa . 23.5 33.6 -2.5 -0.3
86 Lithuania . . . . . . . .
87 Hungary 4.4 3.6 1.8 3.3 2.7 7.9 22.3 35.3 44.0 22.0 24.7 27.9 58.3 54.7 -2.9 0.8
88 Venezuela 5.8 . 19.9 . 8.8 . 9.5 . 20.2 . 35.7 . 18.7 23.9 0 4.5
89 Argentina . 9.9 . 9.9 . 3.0 . . 39.4 . 16.0 . 2/.? 19.2 13.! -3.6 -0.5
90 Uruguay 13.4 9.2 8.8 7.4 4.9 4.5 48.5 50.3 11.4 8.7 13.0 20.0 22.7 27.2 0 0.4
91 Brazil 4.0 3.5 0.0 3.1 8.0 6.7 32.0 25.5 24.0 3.2 32.0 57.9 20.9 35.1 -2.5 -5.9
92 Mexico 2.3 2.4 18.0 13.9 2.4 1.9 18.5 13.0 31.2 13.4 27.6 55.5 17.4 /8.! -3.1 0.8
93 Belarus . . .
94 Russian Federation . . . . . .
95 Latvis . . . . . . . . . .
96 Trinidadandlobago 1.7 . . 11.6 . . 5.8 . . 15.9 43.5 21.5 32.5 . . 7.8
97 Gabon' . . . . . . 40.5 37.8 6.8 -2.0
98 Estonia . . . . . . . . . . .
99 Portugal 7.4 . 11.2 . 10.3 . 27.0 . 19.9 . 24.2 . 39.6 43.3 -10.1 -5
100 Oman 51.2 35.4 4.8 11.4 2.9 5.4 2.0 13.1 18.4 10.3 20.8 24.4 43.1 44.6 0.5 -8.1
101 Puerto Rico . . . . . . . .
102 Korea, Rep 34.3 22.2 17.1 15.8 1.2 2.0 7.5 11.3 15.6 19.2 24.3 29.5 17.9 17.3 -2.3 -1.7
103 Greece 12.6 6.7 10.0 6.0 10.3 8.7 31.3 0.8 16.6 8.8 19.2 68.9 34.4 600 -4.8 -26.2
104 Saudi Arabia . . . . . . . .
lOS Yugoslavia 50.0 53.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.3 6.0 18.8 19.6 25.0 21.0 9.0 5.2 -1.1 0.3
Low- and middle-incomeSub-Saharan Africa

East Asia & Pacific
South Asia
Europe and Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa
Latin America & Caribbean
Severely indebted
High-income economiesOECD members

106 Ireland 3.4 3.3 /1.4 12.2 13.7 13.0 27.7 29.1 18.4 12.8 25.4 29.4 48.9 47.5 -13.6 -2.4
107 tlsrael 39.8 22.4 9.9 10.4 3.6 3.7 14.4 30.5 13.4 10.1 19.0 22.9 72.4 36.2 -16.1 -5.7
108 NewZealandt 5.1 4.1 14.7 12.4 15.2 12.0 31.1 37.4 15.0 10.6 18.9 23.7 39.0 43.7 -6.8 1.5
109 Spain 4.3 5.4 8.0 5.6 0.7 13.7 60.3 37.7 11.9 11.0 14.8 26.6 26.6 34.0 -4.2 -2.3
110 tHong Kong . . . . . . . .
Ill tSingapore 25.2 24.0 14.6 19.9 7.0 4.6 7.6 8.2 17.7 16.8 27.9 26.5 20.8 22.1 2.2 11.2
112 UnitedKingdom 13.8 11.1 2.4 3.2 13.5 13.3 30.0 31.8 7.5 8.5 32.9 32.0 38.2 38.2 -4.6 0.8
113 Australia 9.4 8.6 8.2 7.0 10.0 12.7 28.5 31.2 8.1 8.3 35.8 32.2 23.1 27.7 -1.5 0.6
114 Italy 3.4 . 8.4 . . 12.6 . . 29.6 . . 7.2 . 38.7 . 41.0 49.6 -10.7 -10.0
115 Netherlands 5.6 4.8 13.1 10.5 11.7 12.4 39.5 42.5 10.9 6.4 19.2 23.4 52.5 52.5 -4.5 -2.8
116 Belgium 5.7 . 15.0 . . 1.6 . . 44.7 . . 16.0 . 17.0 . 51.3 49.2 -8.2 -5.4
Ill Austria 3.0 2.4 9.7 9.4 13.3 12.9 48.7 47.9 11.7 9.1 13.5 18.3 37.7 39.8 -3.4 -.4.8
118 France 7.4 6.3 8.6 6.9 14.8 /5.3 46.8 46.4 6.8 5.1 15.6 20.0 39.3 43.7 -0.1 -1.4
119 Canada 7.7 7.4 3.8 2.9 6.7 5.2 35.4 36.4 19.4 /1.2 27.3 36.8 21.8 23.9 -3.6 -2.7
120 UnitedStates 21.2 21.6 2.6 1.7 10.4 13.8 37.8 28.7 9.7 10.1 18.2 24.1 21.7 25.3 -2.8 -.4.8
121 Germanyc 9.1 8.3 0.9 0.6 19.0 18.1 49.6 48.9 8.7 8.7 12.6 /5.4 30.3 32.5 -1.8 -2.5
122 Denmark 6.5 5.! 10.4 9.5 1.8 1.1 44.7 39.9 6.5 7.6 30.0 36.8 40.4 41.7 -2.7 -0.3
123 Finland 5.6 4.7 14.7 /4.9 10.5 11.2 28.2 36.7 27.0 18.8 14.0 /3.7 28.4 31.0 -2.2 0.1
124 Norway 7.7 8.0 8.7 9.4 10.6 10.3 34.7 39.3 22.7 17.5 15.6 /5.5 39.2 46.3 -2 0.7
125 Sweden 7.7 6.3 10.4 9.7 2.2 0.8 51.5 56.4 l0.9 8.0 17.3 18.8 39.8 44.2 -8.2 0.7
126 Japan" . . . . . 18.4 15.8 -7 -1.6
127 Switzerland 10.2 . 3.4 11.7 . . 49.3 14.2 11.2 . 19.5 . . -0.2
WorldFuel exporters

a. See the technical notes. b. Data are for budgetary accounts only. c. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

259


--- Page 274 ---
Table 12. Central government current revenue

Percentage of total cuj,'eng revenue
Tax revenue
Income, profit, Goods and International Total current
and capital services trade and revenue
gains Social security (domestic taxes) transactions Other a Nontax revenue (percentage of GNP)
1980 199! 19&) 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 199! 1980 199!
Low-income economies
China and India
Other low-income

I Mozambique
2 Tanzania 32.5 0.0 40.8 17.3 1.6 7.8
3 Ethiopia 20.9 0.0 24.3 35.7 . . 3.7 15.4 18.7
4 Uganda 11.5 . 0.0 . . 41.0 . . 44.3 . . 0.2 3.1 3.1
5 Bhutan 13.8 7.5 0.0 0.0 39.1 16.6 0.4 0.4 2.3 0.6 44.3 75.0 11.4 19.6
6 Guinea-Bissau . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.!
7 Nepal 5.5 9.9 0.0 0.0 36.8 36.7 33.2 30.8 8.2 5.5 16.2 17.1 7.8 9.5
8 Bwundi 19.3 . . 1.0 . . 25.3 . . 40.4 . . 8.4 . . 5.6 . . 14.0
9 Chad . . 22.6 . . 0.0 . . 33.7 . . 15.3 . . 6.6 . . 21.8 . . 8.9
10 Madagascar 16.6 15.3 11.3 0.0 39.3 19.5 27.6 44.5 2.7 1.1 2.4 19.5 13.4 9.1

11 SiereaLeo, 22.4 31.5 0.0 0.0 16.3 23.4 49.6 40.4 1.5 0.2 10.1 4.6 16.9 6.6
12 Bangladeshb 10.1 8.6 0.0 0.0 25.5 25.8 28.6 27.3 3.9 15.2 31.9 23.0 11.3 11.4
13 La0PDR .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
14 Malawi° 33.9 35.0 0.0 0.0 30.9 33.2 22.0 17.7 0.3 1.2 12.9 12.9 20.7 23.7
IS Rwanda 17.8 . . 4.1 19.3 . . 42.4 . . 2.4 14.0 . . 12.8
16 Mali 17.9 0.0 36.8 . . 17.9 19.5 8.0 11.0
17 Burkina Faso 17.8 . . 7.8 15.9 . . 43.7 . . 4.3 10.5 13.6
18 Niger 23.8 . . 4.0 . . 18.0 . . 36.4 . . 2.6 . . 15.3 . - 14.7
19 In&a 18.3 15.4 0.0 0.0 42.5 35.5 22.0 28.8 0.6 0.4 16.6 19.9 11.7 14.3
20 Kenya" 29.1 29.8 0.0 0.0 38.8 43.2 18.5 15.0 1.0 1.5 12.6 10.5 22.6 21.2

21 Nigeria"
22 China
23 Haiti 13.9 0.0 15.5 48.4 9.6 12.6 10.7
24 Benin
25 Central African Rep. 16.1 6.4 20.8 . . 39.8 . . 7.8 9.1 . . 16.4

26 Ghana' 20.5 . . 0.0 . . 28.2 . . 44.2 . . 0.2 . . 6.9 . . 6.9
27 Pakistan 13.8 10.0 0.0 0.0 33.6 32.2 3.4.4 30.2 0.2 0.3 17.9 27.2 16.4 16.9
28 Togo 34.4 . . 5.8 15.3 . . 32.0 . . -1.7 . . 14.2 . . 31.4
29 Guinea 28.1 . . 1.0 . . 6.4 17.1 279 74.4 0.7 2.4 35.8 6.1 . . 14.6
30 Nicaragua 7.8 16.9 8.9 11.8 37.3 37.5 25.2 17.6 10.7 10.5 10.1 5.8 24.9 16.8

31 SriLanka 15.5 12.8 0.0 0.0 26.8 46.1 50.5 25.9 1.9 4.7 5.3 10.5 20.3 20.4
32 Mauritania
33 Yemen. Rep. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. -.
34 Honduras 30.8 . . 0.0 . . 23.8 . . 37.2 . . 1.8 . . 6.5 . . 15.4
35 Lesotho 13.4 16.9 0.0 0.0 10.2 16.7 61.3 51.8 1.2 0.1 13.9 14.5 17.1 26.8
36 Indonesia 78.0 61.8 0.0 0.0 8.6 23.7 7.2 6.4 1.2 2.7 4.9 5.4 22.2 21.1
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 16.2 15.9 9.1 14.2 15.1 11.9 17.3 14.0 7.7 8.2 34.6 35.8 47.1 35.4
38 Zimbabwe 46.2 44.4 0.0 0.0 27.9 26.3 4.4 19.0 1.2 1.0 20.2 9.3 24.4 31.5
39 Sudanb 14.4 . 0.0 26.0 . . 42.6 . . 0.7 . . 16.3 . . 14.0
40 Za.nbjab 38.1 0.0 43.1 . . 8.3 3.1 95.8 73 4.2 27.0 /1.9
Middle-income economies
Lower-middle-income

41 Bolivia . . 5.1 . . 8.6 . . 34.0 . . 6.0 . . 8.4 . . 37.9 . . 16.6
42 C&ed'Ivoire 13.0 16.7 5.8 6.8 24.8 278 42.8 278 6.1 11.3 7.5 9.6 23.4 26.5
43 Senegal 18.4 . . 3.7 . . 26.0 . . 34.2 . . 11.4 . . 6.3 . . 24.9
44 Philippines 21.1 28.5 0.0 0.0 41.9 25.8 24.2 28.5 2.2 2.7 10.6 14.6 14.0 17.0
45 Papua New Guineati 60.5 . . 0.0 12.1 . . 16.4 . . 0.6 10.5 . . 23.5

46 Cameroon 21.7 45.2 8.0 6.4 18.0 20.2 38.4 14.0 5.9 9.! 7.9 5.1 16.2 19.0
47 Guatemala 11.2 18.1 11.2 0.0 26.4 23.2 30.2 33.8 11.1 72 9.9 177 11.3 9.7
48 DominicnRep. 19.3 21.4 3.9 4.5 21.6 22.5 31.2 40.3 1.7 1.3 22.4 10.0 14.7 12.7
49 Ecuador 44.6 56.9 0.0 0.0 17.4 21.5 30.8 14.3 3.0 5.5 4.3 1.7 13.5 18.1
50 Morocco 19.2 . . 5.4 . . 34.7 . . 20.8 . . 7.4 . . 12.5 . . 24.0
51 Jonlan 13.2 16.1 0.0 !.6 7.3 20.5 47.8 26.4 9.5 72 22.2 28.3 30.5
52 TajiIstan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
53 Pen, 25.9 9.0 0.0 0.0 37.2 74.0 27.1 10.8 2.2 3.5 7.7 2.7 17.9 8.3
54 El Salvador b 23.2 23.1 0.0 0.0 29.8 45.5 37.0 20.6 5.6 5.2 4.5 5.5 11.7 9.1
55 Congo 48.8 . . 4.4 7.6 . . 13.0 . . 2.7 . . 23.5 39.1
56 SyrianArabRep. 9.7 30.7 0.0 0.0 5.3 3.2 14.3 7.4 10.1 35.1 60.7 23.5 26.8 24.4
57 Colombia 24.9 278 11.2 12.6 22.6 277 20.6 178 6.8 6.7 13.9 7.4 12.1 13.4
58 Paraguay 15.2 9.3 13.1 0.0 17.7 19.5 24.8 20.! 20.5 24.8 8.8 26.2 10.6 12.3
59 Uzbekistan .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
60 Jamaica 33.7 3.7 49.3 . . 3.1 6.3 4.0 . . 31.9

61 Romania . . 35.2 28.9 . . 23.2 . . 3.1 1.5 . . 8.1 . . 37.3
62 Natnibia . . 23.4 . . 0.0 . . 25.1 . . 37.5 . . 0.5 . . 13.5 . . 39.1
63 Thnisia 14.6 14.5 9.3 12.3 23.9 22.6 24.7 28.4 5.6 4.9 22.0 17.4 32.3 30.0
64 Kyrayzstan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
65 l'ha,Jand 17.7 25.8 0.2 0.7 46.0 43.6 26.2 19.1 1.8 3.1 8.1 7.7 14.5 20.5
66 Georgia
Note: For data compaibility and covelage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for yeats other than those specified.

260


--- Page 275 ---
Percentageoftotal current revenue
Tax revenue
Income, profit, Goods and International Total current
and capital services trade and revenue
gains Social security (domestic taxes) transactions Othera Nontax revenue (percentage ofGNP)
1980 199! 1980 199! 1980 199! 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 199! 1980 199!
67 Azerbaijan
68 Turkmenistan . . . 0 S ' . . . . . . . . S
69 Thrkey 49.1 44.9 0.0 0.0 19.7 34.6 6.0 5.1 4.6 2.9 20.7 12.6 22.3 20.7
70 Poland . . S S . . . . . . . . . . . . .
71 Bulgaria . . 31.7 . . 13.5 . . 12.7 1.2 0.4 . . 40.4 74.3
72 CostaRica 13.7 8.9 28.9 28.6 30.4 27.7 18.9 19.7 2.3 1.1 5.8 14.0 18.7 24.6
73 Algeria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
74 Panama 21.2 15.6 21.2 21.3 16.7 15.8 10.3 11.1 3.8 3.1 26.7 33.1 28.4 32.5
75 Armenia .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
76 Chile 17.6 . . 17.4 . . 35.8 . . 4.3 . . 4.9 . . 19.9 . . 33.2
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 3.9 11.5 7.4 5.3 3.6 6.7 11.7 45.5 5.3 4.9 68.2 26.1 21.6 19.9
78 Moldova . . .
79 Ukraine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 15.3 13.7 0.0 4.2 17.2 22.6 51.6 46.7 4.3 6.8 11.6 5.9 21.0 24.2
81 Czechoslovakia . . 23.4 . . 0.0 . . 36.9 . . 6.4 . . 23.0 . . 10.2 49.2
82 Kazakhstan
83 Malaysia 375 331 04 00 168 209 330 180 18 24 105 256 273 281
Upper-middle-income
84 Botswanab 33.3 38.8 0.0 0.0 0.7 1.9 39.1 13.4 0.1 0.1 26.7 45.9 36.6 63.4
85 South Africa 55.8 46.8 1.1 1.9 23.8 32.7 3.3 8.8 3.2 2.7 12.7 7.1 25.0 32.3
86 Lithuania
87 Hungaly 185 179 153 292 383 313 69 58 48 02 161 155 555 556
88 Venezuela 67.4 61.4 4.6 5.3 4.2 3.4 6.8 8.2 1.8 1.0 15.2 20.8 22.2 24.3
89 Argentina 0.0 5.6 16.7 33.6 16.7 15.6 0.0 25.9 33.3 10.5 33.3 8.9 17.4 13.7
90 Umguay 10.9 6.7 23.4 27.0 43.3 35.9 14.2 9.8 2.7 15.5 5.5 5.1 23.1 27.8
91 Brazil 14.3 6.9 28.6 10.4 28.6 8.2 7.1 0.7 3.6 2.0 17.9 71.8 23.4 67.9
92 Mexico 36.7 36.5 14.1 13.6 28.9 56.0 27.6 4.6 -12.6 -18.3 5.3 7.7 15.6 14.7
93 Belanis
94 Russian Federation
95 Latvia
96 Trinidl and Tobago 69.8 10 40 70 07 175 428
97 Gabon 39.9 27.6 0.0 0.8 4.8 23.7 19.7 17.4 2.0 1.2 33.7 29.3 39.4 35.8
98 Estonia
99 Portugal 19.4 23.8 26.0 25.9 33.7 36.9 5.1 2.5 8.7 3.2 7.1 7.7 31.1 36.6
100 Oman 26.0 21.3 0.0 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.4 3.1 0.3 0.7 71.8 73.9 42.9 35.6
101 Puerto Rico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
102 Korea, Rep. 22.3 31.3 1.1 5.0 45.9 33.3 15.0 9.2 3.2 10.9 12.5 10.4 18.3 17.4
103 Greece 17.4 19.8 25.8 32.1 31.6 40.4 5.0 0.1 9.6 -2.3 10.6 9.9 29.7 32.2
104 Saudi Arabia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
105 Yugoslavia 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 64.3 66.4 35.7 31.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.3 7.9 5.5
Low- and middle-incomeSub-Saharan Africa

East Asia & Pacific
South AsiaEurope and Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa
Latin America & Caribbean
Severely indebted
High-income economiesOECD members

106 Ireland 34.3 36.3 13.4 14.4 30.1 31.3 9.2 8.1 1.9 3.4 11.1 6.5 37.7 42.9
107 tlsrael 40.7 32.9 10.1 7.4 24.5 36.1 3.6 1.8 7.0 5.0 14.1 16.8 52.0 29.1
108 New Zealandb 67.3 57.3 0.0 0.0 18.0 26.1 3.2 1.9 1.3 3.0 10.3 11.8 34.9 39.1
109 Spain 23.2 32.1 48.0 36.9 12.6 22.6 3.8 2.1 4.4 0.8 8.0 5.6 24.0 32.0
110 tHong Kong . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ill tSingapore 32.5 25.6 0.0 0.0 15.8 16.0 6.9 2.0 13.9 13.8 30.9 42.6 26.3 27.7
112 UnitedKingdom 37.7 39.0 15.6 16.3 27.8 29.0 0.1 0.1 5.7 6.9 13.1 8.8 35.2 37.4
113 Australia 60.8 64.8 0.0 0.0 23.3 20.6 5.4 3.3 0.3 1.5 10.1 9.9 22.1 27.8
114 Italy 30.0 35.1 34.7 28.7 24.7 30.7 0.1 0.0 2.5 2.4 8.1 3.1 31.2 39.9
115 Netherlands 29.6 31.7 36.3 35.9 20.8 21.1 0.0 0.0 2.7 2.8 10.6 8.6 49.1 49.7
116 Belgium 38.5 34.9 30.6 35.3 24.2 23.4 0.0 0.0 2.5 3.2 4.3 3.2 44.0 44.3
117 Austria 21.1 19.6 35.0 36.4 25.6 24.7 1.6 1.5 9.1 8.7 7.7 8.9 34.9 35.6
118 France 17.7 18.2 41.2 43.8 30.9 27.2 0.1 0.0 2.7 3.8 7.4 7.0 39.4 40.9
119 Canada 52.6 52.4 10.4 13.5 16.6 18.8 7.0 3.5 -0.2 0.1 13.6 11.6 19.2 21.3
120 United States 56.6 50.7 28.2 35.1 4.4 3.7 1.4 1.5 1.2 1.0 8.2 8.0 19.9 19.8
121 Germanyc 18.7 16.0 54.2 51.0 23.1 27.5 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.4 3.9 6.0 28.7 30.6
122 Denmark 35.9 37.5 2.3 3.8 46.9 40.8 0.1 0.1 3.3 3.3 11.6 14.6 36.4 40.7
123 Finland 26.7 28.4 11.5 11.6 49.1 45.5 2.0 0.9 3.0 3.4 7.7 10.1 27.5 31.3
124 Norway 27.4 16.6 22.3 24.2 39.6 34.4 0.6 0.5 1.1 1.3 8.9 23.0 42.4 47.4
125 Sweden 18.2 12.3 33.2 32.4 29.1 30.4 1.2 0.5 4.3 9.4 14.1 15.1 35.4 44.4
126 Japa&' 70.8 69.2 0.0 0.0 20.8 16.9 2.4 1.3 0.8 7.4 5.2 5.2 11.6 14.5
127 Switzerland 14.0 . . 48.0 19.3 . . 9.5 2.0 7.3 18.9
World
Fuel exporters
a. See the technical notes. b. Data are for budgetary accountu only. c. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

261


--- Page 276 ---
Table 13. Money and interest rates

Monetary holdings, broadly defined
Average annual Average Nominal interest ratesofbanks
nominal growth Average outstanding o.nntwI (average annual percentage)
rate (percent) as a percentage of GDP 1)epostt rate Lending rateiijiatman
(GOP def sor)
/970-80 1980-91 /970 1980 1991 1980-91 /980 1991 1980 1991
Low-income economies
China and India
Other low-income

I Mozambique 37.6
2 Tanzania 22.6 22.9 37.2 . . 25.7 4.0 17.0 11.5 31.0
3 Ethiopia 14.4 12.5 14.0 25.3 56.9 2.4 1.0 . . 6.0
4 Uganda 28.1 I(, l7 6.8 31.2 10.8 34.4
5 Bhutan 32.3 22.0 8.3 6.5 15.0
6 Guinea-Bissau 56.3
7 Nepal '99 199 10.6 21.9 36.1 9.1 4.0 8.5 14.0 14.4
8 Burundi 20.1 9.9 9.1 13.5 4.3 2.5 . 12.0
9 Chad 15.2 9.0 9.4 20.0 19.4 1.1 5.5 7.5 11.0
10 Madagascar 13.8 16.0 17.3 22.3 19.0 16.8 5.6 9.5
II Sierra Leone 19.9 57.7 12.6 20.6 15.3 59.0 9.2 405 11.0 52.5
12 Bangladesh 21.0 16.7 30.0 9.3 8.3 12.1 11.3 15.9
13 Lao PDR 7.2 14.0 4.8 /5.0
14 Malawi 14.7 21.6 20.5 14.9 7.9 12.5 16.7 20.0
IS Rwanda 21.5 8.5 10.7 13.6 16.6 4.1 6.3 8.8 13.5 19.0
16 Mali 18.5 8.7 13.8 17.9 20.8 4.3 6.2 7.0 9.4 16.0
17 Burkina Faso 21.5 10.9 9.3 15.9 20.2 4.0 6.2 7.0 9.4 16.0
18 Niger 23.9 5.2 5.2 13.3 19.8 2.5 6.2 7.0 9.4 16.0
19 India 17.3 16.8 23.9 36.2 44.1 8.2 16.5 17.9
20 Kenya 19.8 15.1 31.2 36.8 40.7 9.3 5.8 1317 10.6 18.8

21 Nigeria 33.7 15.7 9.2 23.8 20.2 18.2 5.3 14.9 8.4 20.0
22 China 25.4 . . 33.6 84.6 5.8 5.4 5.0 11.2
23 Haiti 24.5 8.6 12.0 26.1 . . 7.1 10.0 .
24 Benin 19.0 5.4 10.1 17.1 26.5 1.6 6.2 7.0 . . 16.0
25 Central African Rep. 16.0 4.4 16.0 18.9 17.1 5.2 5.5 7.5 10.5 16.2
26 Ghana 36.4 42.9 18.0 16.2 12.5 40.2 11.5 21.3 19.0
27 Pakistan 17.1 13.3 41.2 38.7 35.9 7.0 . . . . .
28 logo 22.2 5.9 17.2 29.0 35.2 4.4 6.2 7.0 . . 16.0
29 Guinea
30 Nicaragua 1i2 0.0 00 583.4 7.5 .

31 SriLanka 23.1 15.2 22.0 35.3 33.1 11.2 14.5 18.5 19.0 13.8
32 Mauritania 21.5 11.6 9.5 21.3 26.5 8.6 5.5 5.0 12.0 10.0
33 Yemen, Rep. 18.7 . . . 9.3
34 Honduras 16.0 13.1 19.5 22.6 29.0 6.8 7.0 11.5 18.5 21.9
35 Lesotho 17.1 . . 34.6 13.8 . . 13.0 11.0 20.0
36 Indonesia 35.4 26.2 8.0 13.2 40.5 8.5 6.0 23.3 . . 20.6
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 26.0 . 21.8 33.5 52.2 91.7 12.6 8.3 12.0 13.3 19.0
38 Zimbabwe . . . . . . . . 45.1 13.5 3.5 8.8 17.5 15.5
39 Sudan 28.3 28.0 17.5 32.5 . . 6.0
40 Zambia 10.7 29.9 32.6 . . 7.0 9.5
Middle-income economies
Lower-middle-income

41 Bolivia 29.4 444.2 14.8 16.2 318.4 263.8 18.0 23.8 28.0 41.2
42 Côte d'Ivoire 22.6 3.7 24.7 25.8 31.5 3.9 6.2 7.0 9.4 16.0
43 Senegal 19.6 5.9 14.0 26.6 22.2 5.9 6.2 7.0 9.4 16.0
44 Philippines 19.2 16.8 29.9 26.4 32.2 14.6 12.3 18.8 14.0 23.1
45 Papua New Guinea 8.1 32.9 33.1 5.2 6.9 9.1 11.2 14.1
46 Cameroon 22.5 7.0 13.5 18.3 24.4 4.5 7.5 8.0 13.0
47 Guatemala 18.6 17.2 17.1 20.5 19.3 15.9 9.0 24.4 11.0 34'
48 Dominican Rep. 18.1 28.0 17.9 21.8 20.1 24.5
49 Ecuador 24.2 35.5 20.0 20.2 13.4 38.1 9.0 4.7
50 Morocco 18.7 14.5 31.1 42.4 58.3 7.1 4.9 8.5 7.0 9.0

51 Jonian 24.3 13.0 134.8 1.6
52 Tajikistan
53 Pent 33.6 224.0 17.8 16.4 . . 287.4 172.9
54 El Salvador 17.3 17.2 22.5 28.1 27.8 17.4 16.1 19.7
55 Congo 15.7 6.7 16.5 14.7 20.0 0.6 65 7.8 11.0 12.5

56 SyrianArabRep. 26.5 /9.2 34.8 40.9 14.4 5.0
57 Colombia 32.7 20.5 23.7 26.1 25.0 37.2 /9.0 47.1
58 Paraguay 25.9 16.9 19.8 25.1
59 Uzbekistan . ..
60 Jamaica 15.7 24.4 31.4 35.4 40.3 19.6 10.3 27.4 13.b 35.6

61 Romania 10.3 33.4 36.6 6.2
62 Namibia . . . . . . . . 12.5 . . . . .
63 Tunisia 20.3 15.5 33.0 42.1 . . 7.3 2.5 7.4 7.3 9.9
64 Kyrgyzstan .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
65 Thailand 17.9 18.9 23.6 37.3 71.5 3.7 12.0 12.3 18.0 25.0

66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

262


--- Page 277 ---
Monetary holdings, broadly defined
Average annual Average Nominal interest ratesofbanks
nominal growth Average outstanding annual (average annualpercentage)
rate (percent) as a percentage ofGDP Deposit rate Lending rateinflation
(GDP deflator)
1970-80 1980-9! 1970 1980 1991 1980 199! /980 199!1980-91
67 Azerbaijan
68 Thrkmenistan
69 Turkey 32.9 5i.. 27.9 17.2 21.6 4 62.9 25.7
70 Poland 58.6 58.4 29.4 63.1 3.0 27.8 8.0 101.4
71 Bulgaria 7.9 1.6 5.'
72 Costa Rica 30.6 25.7 18.9 38.8 38.3 22.9 27.3 38.9
73 Algeria 24.1 14.3 53.6 58.5 10.2
74 Panama 36.9 2.4
75 Armenia
76 Chile 194.2 29.8 12.5 21.0 38.5 20.5 37.5 22.3 47.1 28.6
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 33.2 16.7 26.1 54.5 14.1
78 Moldova
79 Ukraine
80 Mauritius 24.3 22.0 37.5 41.1 65.4 8.1 . . 12.3 17.8
81 Czechoslovakia 6.6 63.8 3.5 2.7 8.1
82 Kazakhstan
83 Malaysia 25.2 16 3 6 1.7 6.2 7.2 78 81
Upper-middle-income
84 Botswaña 25.8 28.2 27.0 13.3 5.0 11.4 8.5 11.8
85 South Africa 15.6 16.6 59.9 50.9 56.2 14.4 5.5 17.3 9.5 20.3
86 Lithuania
87 Hungary 10.3 3.0 23.0 28.0
88 Venezuela 26.4 20.2 24.1 43.0 21.2 31.1 29.8
89 Argentina 140.8 368.5 27.5 22.2 7.6 416.8 79.4 60.3 112.9
90 Uruguay 78.4 69.1 24.5 32.1 43.8 64.4 50.3 75.2 66.6 152.9
91 Brazil 9.7 18.4 327.7 115.0 913.2
92 Mexico -47.0 62.0 26.1 26.2 24.1 66.5 20.6 17.1 28.1
93 Belanis
94 Russian Federation
95 Latvia
96 Trinidad and Tobago 27.9 59 28.2 32.0 5.j 10.0 I 32
97 Gabon 31.3 5.2 14.5 15.2 21.7 1.3 7.5 8.8 12.5 16.0
98 Estonia
99 Portugal 20.2 18.6 87.6 80.8 74.7 17.4 19.0 14.6 18.8 22.9
100 Oman 29.4 11.0 13.8 30.6 -3.0 7.1 9.5
101 Puerto Rico 3.4
102 Korea, Rep. 30.4 21.3 32.1 31.7 52.3 5.7 19.5 10.0 18.0 10.0
103 Greece 23.9 22.3 42.9 61.6 79.3 17.7 14.5 20.7 21.3 29.5
104 Saudi Arabia 43.7 7.8 17.6 18.6 -3.1
105 Yugoslavia 28.4 119.0 54.8 59.1 122.9 5.9 11.5
Low- and middle-income
Sub-Saharan Africa
East Asia & Pacific
South Asia
Europe and Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa
Latin America & Caribbean
Severely indebted
High-income economiesOECD members

106 Ireland 19.1 6.7 64.0 58.1 4.6.8 5.8 12.0 5.2 16.0 10.6
107 tlsrael 54.5 99.2 15.0 14.7 56.6 89.0 13.9 176.9 26.6
108 New Zealand 15.1 . . 51.4 50.9 . . 10.3 9.0 12.6 12.1
109 Spain 20.1 10.8 68.8 74.4 68.8 8.9 13.1 10.5 16.9 14.4
110 tHong Kong 69.5 . . 7.5
Ill tSingapore 17.1 13.5 66.2 74.4 126.1 1.9 9.4 4.6 11.7 7.6
112 United Kingdom 15.2 . . 49.2 460 . . 5.8 14.1 5.3 16.2 11.5
113 Australia 20.4 12.2 43.6 57.9 74.5 7.0 8.6 10.4 10.6 16.4
114 Italy 20.1 12.0 79.3 81.9 78.9 9.5 12.7 6.6 19.0 13.9
115 Netherlands 14.6 . . 53.9 77.2 1.8 6.0 3.2 13.5 12.4
116 Belgium 10.8 7.0 56.7 57.0 . . 4.2 7.7 6.3 12.9
Ill Austria 13.7 7.4 54.0 72.6 87.3 3.6 5.0 3.8 .
118 France 15.6 9.9 57.8 69.7 . . 5.7 6.3 6.7 18.7 16.0
119 Canada 17.5 8.4 48.4 65.0 75.7 4.3 12.9 8.6 14.3 9.9
120 United States 10.0 8.0 60.4 58.3 67.0 4.2 15.3 8.5
121 Germanya 9.4 6.4 52.8 60.7 68.2 2.8 8.0 7.6 12.0 12.5
122 Denmark 12.4 11.1 44.8 42.6 59.6 5.2 10.8 7.2 17.2 11.4
123 Finland 15.4 12.9 39.8 39.5 56.2 6.6 7.5 9.8 11.8
124 Norway 12.8 10.6 54.6 51.6 63.9 5.2 5.0 9.6 12.6 14.2
125 Sweden 11.4 9.2 48.1 46.5 45.5 7.4 11.3 8.0 15.1 16.1
126 Japan 16.0 8.9 94.7 134.0 183.1 1.5 5.5 3.3 8.4 7.5
127 Switzerland 5.4 6.8 109.8 107.4 112.0 3.8 7.6 7.8
WorldFuel exporters

a. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

263


--- Page 278 ---
Table 14. Growth of merchandise trade

Merchandise trade
(millionsofdollars) Average annual growth ratea (percent) Terms oftrade
.spor1s Imports Exports Imports (1987 =

1991 1991 1970-80 1980-91 1970-80 1980-91 1985 1991
Low-income economies 161,496 1 167,270 1 3.5 w 6.6 w 6.0 w 2.7 w 106m 94m
China and India 90,539 1 84,209 1 6.9 w 10.4 w 7.3 w 7.8 w 103m 106m
Other low-income 70,957 1 83,062 I 2.0 w 3.3 w 5.4 w -1.3 w 106m 93m

1 Mozambique . . . . . . . . .
2 Tanzania 394 1,381 -7.5 -1.9 -0.6 2.8 101 84
3 Ethiopia 276 1,031 -2.3 1.9 -0.6 3.3 117 60
4 Uganda 200 550 -8.4 2.3 -1.5 3.6 143 48
5 Bhutan . . .

6 Guinea-Bissau 28 78 15.9 -2.5 -5.2 3.6 91 138
7 Nepal 238 740 10.9 8.1 8.8 4.9 98 85
8 Bunindi 91 254 0.2 8.6 5.0 -0.1 133 43
9 Chad 194 408 .. .. ..
10 Madagascar 344 523 -3.0 0.3 -0.8 0.5 98 85
II Sierra Leone 145 163 -5.7 -3.0 -2.0 -7.2 106 116
12 Bangladesh 1,718 3,470 3.8 7.2 -2.4 4.3 122 105
13 Lao PDR 97 228 . . . . . . . . .
14 Malawi 470 719 5.4 5.6 1.0 2.2 104 87
15 Rwand,a ..

16 Mali 354 638 8.3 6.7 5.2 3.5 95 99
17 Burkina Faso 116 602 7.3 6.5 6.4 3.3 108 89
18 Niger 385 431 21.0 1.8 10.9 -3.0 126 82
19 India 17,664 20,418 4.3 7.4 3.0 4.2 96 100
20 Kenya 1,203 2,034 2.9 2.9 1.9 1.0 114 87

21 Nigeria 12,071 6,525 0.4 1.2 19.4 -14.3 167 82
22 China* 72,875 63,791 8.7 11.5 11.3 9.5 109 III
23 Haiti 103 374 5.6 -4.5 6.3 -2.1 89 77
24 Benin 103 398 -11.6 11.3 4.0 -0.2 103 85
25 Central African Rep. 133 196 -0.6 1.3 -2.9 6.1 107 III
26 Ghana 992 1,418 -6.3 5.2 -2.2 1.8 106 62
27 Pakistan 6,528 8,439 0.7 9.9 4.2 2.6 90 80
28 Togo 292 548 4.9 6.5 11.2 2.5 118 80
29 Guinea . . . . . . . . . . . . .
30 Nicaragua 268 751 0.8 -4.2 0.1 -1.2 108 107

31 SriLanka 2,629 3,861 2.0 6.3 4.5 2.1 103 87
32 Mauritania 438 470 -2.0 5.6 1.4 3.1 113 109
33 Yemen, Rep. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
34 Honduras 679 880 3.8 -0.7 2.1 -1.2 III 113
35 Lesotho5
36 Indonesia 28,997 25,869 7.2 4.5 13.0 2.6 134 101
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 3,887 7,862 -2.6 2.8 7.8 -2.3 131 93
38 Zimbabwe 1,779 2,110 2.3 0.4 -3.5 -1.0 100 101
39 Sudan 329 1,433 -3.5 -1.2 -0.6 -4.0 106 94
40 Zambia 1,082 1,255 -0.2 -3.2 -9.2 -1.8 90 116
Middle-income economies 524,9481 552,2571 4.1 w 3.4 w 6.1 w 1.1 w 109 m 103 m
Lower-middle-income 214,9771 243,207 I 6.7 w 5.3 w 5.9 w 1.8 w 108 m 103 m

41 Bolivia 760 992 -0.8 4.5 7.3 0.2 167 73
42 Côted'Ivoire 3,011 1,671 4.8 4.5 9.1 -2.3 110 67
43 Senegal 977 1,407 1.8 5.6 3.7 3.4 106 93
44 Philippines 8,754 12,145 6.0 3.3 3.3 3.0 93 91
45 PapuaNewGuinea 1,361 1,614 10.6 6.8 1.8 1.6 Ill 80
46 Cameroon 2,022 1,448 4.2 11.5 5.4 -1.5 139 81
47 Guatemala 1,202 1,850 5.7 -0.7 5.8 -0.8 108 103
48 Dominican Rep. 658 1,729 -2.7 -1.5 2.0 1.4 109 112
49 Ecuador 2,957 2.328 12.5 4.8 6.7 -2.1 153 90
50 Morocco 4,278 6,872 3.9 5.9 6.6 3.8 88 98
SI Jordan 879 2,507 19.3 6.9 15.3 -0.8 95 116
52 Tajikistan .. .. .. .. ..
53 Pens 3,307 2,813 3.3 1.1 -1.7 -4.7 III 67
54 El Salvador 367 885 1.3 -2.7 4.6 -3.7 126 103
55 Congo 1,455 524 16.8 6.6 5.3 -1.9 145 84
56 SynanArabRep. 5,594 3,002 7.0 20.6 12.4 3.9 125 182
57 Colombia 7,269 4,967 1.9 12.0 6.0 -1.7 140 84
58 Paraguay 737 1.460 8.3 12.2 5.3 5.8 108 117
59 Uzbekistan .. .. .. .. ..
60 Jamaica 1,081 1,843 -1.7 0.8 -6.8 2.0 95 91
61 Romani%
62 Namibia . . . . . . . . . . . . .
63 Tunisia 3,709 5,180 7.5 5.6 12.5 1.5 105 95
64 Kyrgyzstan .. .. .. .. ..
65 Thailand 28,324 37,408 10.3 14.4 5.0 11.1 91 91
66 Georgia
Data for Taiwan, China, are: 76,090 61,723 15.6 11.0 12.2 10.1 100 106
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified..

264


--- Page 279 ---
Merchandise trade ratea (percent)
(millionsofdollars) Average annual growth Terms oftrade
Erporis Imports Esports Imports (1987= 100)

1991 /991 1970-80 /980-9! 1970-80 1980-9! 1985 /991
67 Azerbaijan
68 Turkmenistan
69 Turkey 13,594 21,038 4.3 7.2 5.7 7.4 82 108
70 Poland 14,903 15,757 5.4 3.3 5.8 2.0 94 104
71 Bulgaria
72 Costa Rica 1,490 1,864 5.2 4.6 4.2 3.4 III 109
73 Algeria 11,790 7,683 -0.5 2.4 12.1 -5.6 174 95
74 Panama 333 1,681 -7.3 0.0 -5.1 -3.4 130 112
75 Armenia
76 Chile 8,552 7,453 10.4 5.2 2.2 1.9 102 122
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 15,916 21,688 -6.8 14.7 10.3 7.9 160 88
78 Moldova
79 Ukraine
80 Mauntius 1,193 1,575 3.8 9.9 8.2 10.8 83 104
81 Czechoslovakia 16,317 7,947 6.4 0.1 5.7 -6.0 98 137
82 Kazakhstan
83 Malaysia 34,300 35,183 4.8 10.9 3.7 7.2 Ill 93
Upper-middle-income 309,972 1 309,0501 2.3 w 2.3 w 6.2w 0.6w 117m 105m
84 Botswanat'
85 South Africab 24,164 17,503 13.4 0.9 -2.0 -4.4 105 86
86 Lithuania
87 Hungary 10,180 11,370 3.8 2.2 2.0 1.0 104 102
88 Venezuela 15,127 10,181 -11.6 0.1 10.9 -6.6 174 101
89 Argentina 11,975 8,100 7.1 2.1 2.3 -5.5 110 113
90 Umguay 1,574 1,552 6.5 3.1 3.1 0.2 89 105
91 Brazil 31,610 22,959 8.5 4.3 4.0 0.8 92 119
92 Mexico 27,120 38,184 13.5 3.5 5.5 2.2 133 100
93 Belanis
94 Russian Federation
95 Latvia
96 Trinidad and Tobago 1,985 1667 -7.3 -2.6 -9.6 -10.8 156 97
97 Gabon 3,183 806 5.7 5.1 11.6 -3.0 140 79
98 Estonia
99 Portugal 16,326 26,329 1.2 II.! 1.0 10.0 85 112
100 Oman
101 Puerto Rico
102 Korea. Rep. 71,672 81,251 23.5 12.2 11.6 11.1 103 1(18
103 Greece 8,647 21,552 10.9 3.9 3.2 5.4 94 107
104 Saudi Arabia 54,736 25,540 5.7 -4.2 35.9 -9.0 176 79
105 Yugoslavia 13,953 14,737 5.3 -1.2 3.4 -1.2 95 107
Low- and middle-income 686,445 I 719,528 1 3.9 w 4.1 w 6.0 w 1.5w 107 m 100 mSub-Saharan Africa 38,0851 35,207 1 0.2 w 2.7 w 5.2 w -4.0 w 107 m 87 m

East Asia & Pacific 251,4481 265,796 1 9.5 w 10.2 w 7.6 w 8.4 w 96m 108 m
South Asia 29,012 1 37,928 1 3.6 w 7.4 w 2.5 w 3.6 w 97 m 86m
Europe and Central Asia 95,153 1 120,861 1 94 m 108 m
Middle East & N. Africa 126,1361 119,0251 w - w V -3.2 w 129 m 95 m
Latin America & Caribbean 122,446 1 123,207 1 -0.1 w 2.9 w 3.6 w -1.1 w Ill m 105 m
Severely indebted 138,113 1 140,829 1 9.7 w 2.8 w 5.9 w -0.6 w hIm 98m
High-income economies 2,650,106I 2,788,686 1 5.3 w 4.1 w 2.3 w 5.1 w 97 m 101 m
OECD members 2,441,157 1 2,520,853 1 5.6 w 4.1 w 2.0 w 5.1 w 94 m lOt m
106 Ireland 24,240 20,754 11.7 7.1 4.7 3.7 97 92
107 tlsrael 11,891 16,753 10.0 6.7 3.5 5.1 105 104
108 New Zealand 9,269 8,494 3.4 3.6 -0.3 3.2 88 94
109 Spain 60,134 93,062 9.1 7.5 1.9 9.4 91 108
110 tHong Kong 29,738 100,255 9.7 4.4 7.8 11.3 97 101
Ill tSingapore 58,871 65,982 4.2 8.9 5.0 7.2 99 101
112 United Kingdom 185,095 209,982 4.4 2.6 0.3 4.4 103 104
113 Australia 37,724 39,460 3.8 4.6 1.8 5.0 Ill 107
114 Italy 169,365 178,240 6.0 3.4 0.7 4.2 84 101
115 Netherlands 133,527 125,838 3.3 4.4 1.1 3.5 101 100
116 Belgiumc 118,222 121,038 5.6 4.6 2.9 3.3 94 95
117 Austria 41,082 50,697 6.2 6.2 4.0 5.3 87 89
118 France 212,868 230,257 6.6 3.5 2.4 3.3 96 102
119 Canada 124,797 117,633 2.0 5.7 0.4 7.8 110 105
120 United States 397,705 506,242 6.5 4.0 4.3 7.0 100 102
121 Germanyd 401,848 387,882 5.0 4.1 2.8 4.5 82 95
122 Denmark 35,687 32,158 4.3 5.0 -0.4 4.0 93 104
123 Finland 23,081 21,708 5.3 2.6 0.1 4.0 85 99
124 Norway 34,037 25,523 7.9 7.4 0.7 2.2 130 90
125 Sweden 55,042 49,760 2.5 3.8 -0.2 3.1 94 103
126 Japan 314,395 234,103 9.0 3.9 0.4 5.6 71 99
127 Switzerland 61,468 66,285 4.9 3.3 2.6 3.4 86 96
World 3,336,550 1 3,508,214 I 5.0 w 4.1 w 3.1w 4.3w 106m lOOmFuel exporters 171,293 123,270 1 1.4 w -0.1 w 14.9 w -5.5 w 167m 85m

a. See the technicai notes. b. Data are for the South African Customs Union comprising South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, Botawana, and Swaziland; trade among the
component territories is excluded. c. Includes Luxembourg. d. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

265


--- Page 280 ---
Table 15. Structure of merchandise imports

Percentage share of merchandise imports
Other Machinery
prtmar and transport Other
Food Fuels commodities equipment manufactures
1970 1991 /970 199/ 1970 199/ 1970 /991 1970 /991
Low-income economies 15w lOw 6w4w7w 9w8w 8w 8w 31 w 34w 40w 38w
China and India 14w 6w 14 w 10 w7w 32 w 35 w 36w 41w
Other low-income 16w 14w 11w Sw 30w 32 w 42w 36w

I Mozambique
2 Tanzania 7 II 9 19 2 4 40 33 42 33
3 Ethiopia 9 14 8 10 4 3 35 45 45 28
4 Uganda 6 8 2 30 3 2 34 27 55 34
5 Bhutan
6 Guinea-Bissau 28 32 7 7 4 3 16 IS 45 43
7 Nepal 5 9 It 12 0 14 25 24 60 41
8 Burundi 18 17 7 7 8 7 23 28 45 40
9 Chad 19 17 IS IS 4 3 23 27 38 38
10 Madagascar 12 13 7 24 3 3 30 32 48 28
II SierraLeone 23 24 7 28 4 3 22 19 44 26
12 Bangladesh 23 26 /3 13 /1 6 22 17 32 38
13 La0PDR -. .- - 0 -
14 Malawi 15 7 5 16 6 4 30 26 44 47
15 Rwanda - - -
16 Mali 29 18 9 28 6 2 21 25 36 28
17 BurkinaFaso 19 23 8 16 8 5 27 24 37 31
18 Niger 13 IS 4 20 6 6 26 28 51 31
19 India 21 5 8 23 19 12 23 18 29 42
20 Kenya 6 6 10 IS 4 4 34 38 4-6 37

21 Nigeria 8 18 3 I 3 5 37 36 48 41
22 China 7 6 I 3 10 9 39 41 43 41
23 Haiti 19 24 6 12 4 5 21 20 51 39
24 Benin 12 16 4 7 8 II 21 21 55 45
25 CentralAfricanRep. 17 17 I 7 2 5 36 33 44 38
26 Ghana 20 9 6 31 4 3 26 26 44 31
27 Pakistan 21 17 6 II 7 8 31 28 35 29
28 Togo 16 20 4 7 II 6 22 24 47 43
29 Guinea - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
30 Nicaragua 10 16 6 13 3 2 28 33 54 36

31 SnLanka 47 17 3 II 4 4 18 19 29 49
32 Mauritania 23 23 8 7 2 I 38 40 29 29
33 Yemen, Rep. .. - - -. - - - - - - - - - - - -
34 Honduras II 13 7 16 2 3 29 25 SI 44
35 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
36 Indonesia II 5 2 9 4 9 35 45 47 32
37 Egyp,ArabRep. 21 29 9 3 14 10 27 24 29 34
38 Zimbabwe 5 5 24 24 6 6 29 29 37 37
39 Sudan 20 22 8 16 4 3 27 25 41 34
40 Zambia II 8 10 18 2 2 39 35 38 37
Middle-income economies 12 w lOw 9w 11 w 10 w 8 w 35 w 36w 34w 36w
Lower-middle-income 14 w 10 w 9 w 10 w 9 w 7 w 33 w 38 w 34 w 35 w
41 Bolivia 20 14 1 I 3 3 37 43 40 39
42 Côted'Ivoire IS IS 5 21 3 3 33 23 44 34
43 Senegal 28 26 5 20 5 5 25 21 38 29
44 Philippines II 7 12 15 9 7 35 26 33 46
45 Papua New Guinea 23 17 10 9 2 2 30 38 36 34
46 Cameroon 12 14 5 I 2 3 32 35 49 47
47 Guatemala II 12 2 17 3 3 27 26 57 42
48 Dominican Rep. 17 17 14 26 5 4 27 21 38 32
49 Ecuador 7 8 6 I 3 5 35 41 49 46
50 Morocco 20 II 5 IS II 14 32 28 32 33
51 Jordan 30 26 6 14 5 4 17 18 42 37
52 Tajikistan - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
53 Peru 20 20 2 II 5 3 35 35 38 31
54 ElSalvador 13 16 2 13 5 6 23 24 56 41
55 Congo 19 IS 2 3 2 2 33 35 44 41
56 SyrianArabRep. IS 17 10 18 7 7 33 26 36 32
57 Colombia 7 7 I 6 9 8 46 33 37 47
58 Paraguay 13 8 IS 12 7 5 32 36 33 39
59 Uzbekistan - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
60 Jamaica 22 20 IS 21 5 4 21 18 37 38
61 Romania - - -
62 Namibiaa
63 Tunisia 27 IS Ii 26 41
64 Kyrgyzstan - - -
65 Thailand 4 5 8 36 39 43 38
66 Georgia - - - -

* Data for Taiwan. China, are: IS 6 5 10 18 12 35 36 28 36
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics ale for years other than those specified.

266


--- Page 281 ---
Percentage shareofmerchandise imports
Other Machinery
primary and transport Other
Food Fuels commodities equipment manufactures
1970 1991 1970 199! 1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 199!
67 Azerbaijan
68 Turkmenistan 0 S
69 Turkey 8 7 8 21 8 12 41 29 36 31
70 Poland 14 7 18 22 II 8 27 34 24 28
71 Bulgaria .
72 Costa Rica II 9 4 17 3 4 29 20 53 50
73 Algeria 13 26 2 3 6 6 37 32 42 34
74 Panama 10 10 19 15 2 2 27 26 42 47
75 Armenia . 0 . . . . . 0
76 Chile 14 6 6 15 7 4 43 38 30 38
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 7 13 0 0 8 5 41 44 45 38
78 Moldova . .
79 Ukraine . . . 0 S . . . . . .
80 Mauntius 36 27 7 18 3 5 13 12 41 37
81 Czechoslovakia 12 8 II 9 19 14 36 39 23 29
82 Kazakhstan . .. .. .. .. .. ..
83 Malaysia 20 6 12 4 9 5 28 55 31 30
Upper-middle-income II w 10w 9 w 11 w 11 w 8w 37 w 34w 33w 36 w
84 Botswanaa .. .. .. .. ..
85 South Africaa 4 3 0 0 6 4 53 43 36 50
86 Lithuania . . . . 0 S . . . . . . .
87 Hungary 10 5 9 IS 19 8 31 30 31 42
88 Venezuela 10 12 I 2 5 9 45 44 38 33
89 Argentina 6 4 5 9 16 II 31 33 42 44
90 Uniguay II 7 15 16 14 6 31 30 29 41
91 Brazil II 10 12 26 8 8 35 27 34 29
92 Mexico 7 14 3 3 9 8 50 41 31 33
93 Belams . .
94 Russian Federation . .
95 Latvia . S . . . . . . . .
96 Trinidad andlobago II IS 53 15 2 6 13 26 22 38
97 Gabon 14 17 I I 1 2 39 40 44 39
98 Estonia . . S 0 . .
99 Portugal 13 13 9 9 14 5 30 36 34 37
100 Oman ..
101 Puerto Rico S . . . . . . . . . . .
102 Korea, Rep. 17 6 7 16 21 13 30 34 25 31
103 Greece II 13 7 10 10 6 48 33 25 38
104 Saudi Arabia 26 IS I 0 5 4 33 35 35 47
105 Yugoslavia 8 10 5 18 18 10 33 26 37 36
Low- and middle-income 13 w 10 w 8w lOw lOw 8w 34w 35w 35w 36w
Sub-Saharan Africa 14 w 16 w 7w 12w 4w 4w 32w 31w 44w 37w
East Asia & Pacific 13 w 6 w 7w 9w lOw lOw 33w 39w 37w 36s
South Asia 24 w 11 w 7w 19w 13w lOw 24w 20w 31w 40w
Europe and Central Asia .
Middle East & N. Africa 18 w 17 w 3w 4w 8w 6w 32w 35w 39w 38w
Latin America & Caribbean 11 w 12 w 11w 13w 7w 7w 35w 34w 36w 35w
Severely indebted 13 w 13 w 9w 11w 9w 7w 34w 35w 34w 34w
High-income economies 15w 9w lOw lOw 16w 7w 25w 34w 33w 40wOECD members 15w 9w lOw lOw 17w 7w 25w 34w 33w 39w

106 Ireland 13 II 8 6 9 4 27 35 43 44
107 jIsrael 14 7 5 8 9 5 30 32 42 49
108 New Zealand 6 8 7 8 II 4 34 37 43 44
109 Spain 14 II 13 Il 18 7 26 37 28 34
110 tHongKong 19 6 3 2 10 5 16 27 52 60
Ill tSingapore IS 6 13 14 13 4 23 44 35 32
112 United Kingdom 23 10 10 6 21 6 17 36 29 41
113 Australia 5 5 5 6 7 3 41 42 42 45
114 Italy 19 13 14 10 21 10 20 32 26 36
115 Netherlands 14 13 II 9 II 5 25 31 39 42
116 Belgiumb 13 10 9 8 19 7 26 26 33 48
117 Austria 9 5 8 6 13 7 31 39 39 44
118 France 14 10 12 10 IS 6 25 34 33 40
119 Canada 9 6 6 5 6 4 49 51 31 34
120 United States 16 6 8 II 13 5 28 41 36 37
121 Germanyc 18 10 9 8 18 7 19 35 36 41
122 Denmark 10 12 10 5 9 5 28 31 42 46
123 Finland 9 6 II 13 9 7 33 34 37 39
124 Norway 8 6 8 4 13 7 35 38 36 44
125 Sweden 10 7 II 9 II 5 30 37 39 42
126 Japan 17 IS 21 23 37 15 II 16 14 30
127 Switzerland 12 6 5 5 10 5 27 32 46 52
World 15w 9w lOw lOw 15w 7w 27w 35w 34w 39wFuel exporters 13 w IS w 5 w 2 w 5 w 5 w 36 w 40 w 41 w 39 w

a. Data are for the South African Customs Union comprising South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, Botswana, and Swaziland; trade among the component temtories is
excluded. b. Includes Luxembourg. c. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germnay before unification.

267


--- Page 282 ---
Table 16. Structure of merchandise exports

Percentage shareofmerchandise exports

Fuels, Other Machinery
minerals, primary and transport Other Textiles and
and metals co,nmodities equipment manufactures clothing a
1970 199! 1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 1991 1970 199/
Low- income economies 28w 23 w 44w 20w 3w lOw 24w 46w 13 w 23 w
China and India 12 w 9 w 27 w 16 w 10 w 17 w 51 w 58 w 27 w 28 w
Other low-income 36 w 42 w 52 w 26 w 0 w 2 w 12 w 31 w 7 w 17 w

I Mozambique S 0 S
2 Tanzania 7 5 80 84 0 1 13 10 2 3
3 Ethiopia 2 3 97 94 0 0 2 3 0 1
4 Uganda 9 4 90 95 0 0 0 0 0 0
5 Bhutan S S S S S
6 Guinea-Bissau 0 0 98 97 1 . 1 0 0
7 Nepal 0 0 65 II 0 35 88 25 76
8 Bunindi 1 1 97 97 0 0 2 2 0 0
9 Chad 0 3 95 93 1 1 4 3 0 I
10 Madagascar 9 8 84 85 2 2 5 6 1 3
II Sierra Leone IS 34 22 33 . . . 63 32 0
12 Bangladesh 1 1 35 29 1 0 64 70 49 62
13 LaoPDR .. .. .. .. .. ..
14 Malawi 0 0 96 96 0 0 3 4 I 3
15 Rwanda . . .
16 Mali 1 0 89 93 0 0 10 7 8 6
17 BurkinaFaso 0 0 95 88 I 4 3 8 0 2
18 Niger 0 86 96 12 I 0 2 I 0 I
19 India 13 8 35 19 5 7 47 66 25 25
20 Kenya 12 16 75 64 0 5 12 15 I 2
21 Nigena 62 96 36 3 . 0 1 1 0 0
22 Chinat II 9 19 15 15 19 55 57 29 28
23 Haiti 17 12 57 46 . . 5 26 37 4 8
24 Benin 0 3 89 67 3 3 8 28 6 I
25 Central African Rep. 0 I 55 55 1 0 44 43 I 0
26 Ghana 13 15 86 84 0 0 I 1 0 0
27 Pakistan 2 I 41 26 0 0 57 72 47 60
28 logo 25 49 69 42 2 1 4 9 I 2
29 Guinea . . . . . . . . . . S S S S
30 Nicaragua 3 2 81 86 0 0 16 12 3 I
31 Sn Lanka I 1 98 34 0 2 1 62 0 43
32 Mauritania 88 86 II 9 0 4 0 I 0 0
33 Yemen, Rep. . S . S S
34 Hondura,s 9 5 82 89 0 0 8 6 2 I
35 Lesotho S . S
36 Indonesia 44 43 54 16 0 2 1 39 0 14
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 5 40 68 20 I 1 26 40 19 27
38 Zimbabwe 18 17 47 51 2 4 33 28 4 6
39 Sudan 1 3 99 96 0 0 0 1 0 0
40 Zambia 99 98 I I 0 0 0 I 0 0
Middle-income economies 40 w 34 w
Lower-middle-income 31 w 29 w 41w 27w 14w 17w 16w 29w 3w 9w
41 Bolivia 93 74 4 21 . . 0 3 4 0 I
42 Côte d'Ivoire 2 II 92 79 1 2 5 9 1 2
43 Senegal 12 22 69 56 4 3 15 20 6 2
44 Philippines 23 9 70 20 0 14 8 57 I 9
45 Papua New Guinea 42 62 55 35 0 2 3 I 0 0
46 Cameroon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . S
47 Guatemala 0 2 72 70 2 I 26 26 8 5
48 Dominican Rep. 4 I 77 79 0 3 20 17 0 0
49 Ecuador I 43 97 55 0 0 2 2 1 0
50 Morocco 33 20 57 29 0 3 9 48 4 20
51 Jordan 24 38 59 16 3 1 13 44 3 4
52 Tajikistan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
53 Pens 49 52 49 30 0 2 1 17 0 9
54 ElSalvador 2 3 70 56 3 3 26 37 II 15
55 Congo 1 92 70 5 I 0 28 3 0 0
56 SynanArabRep. 62 62 29 15 3 1 7 23 4 15
57 Colombia II 29 81. 38 I 3 7 31 2 II
58 Paraguay 0 0 91 89 . . 0 9 11 0 I
59 Uzbekistan .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
60 Jamaica 25 17 22 27 0 I 53 56 2 14
61 Romani%
62 Namibia
63 Tunisia 21 II 7 1 i
64 Kyrgyzstan
65 Thailand 15 77 32 0 22 1
66 Georgia
* Data for Taiwan, China, are: 2 2 22 6 17 38 59 55 29 16

Note: Fordata comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

268


--- Page 283 ---
Percentage share of merchandise exports
Fuels, Other Machinery
minerals, primary and transport Other Textiles and
and metals commodities equipment manufactures clothing a

/970 1991 1970 199/ 1970 1991 1970 1991 /970 1991
67 Azerbaijan
68 Turkmenistan 0 S 0 .
69 Turkey 8 7 83 26 0 6 9 61 5 36
70 Poland 20 20 9 16 36 26 25 38 6 5
71 Bulgaria . . . 0
72 Costa Rica 0 2 80 72 3 3 17 23 4 5
73 Algeria 73 97 20 0 2 I 5 2 I 0
74 Panama 21 2 75 77 2 I 2 21 0 7
75 Armenia . . . . . . . S S S . .
76 Chile 88 50 7 35 I I 4 14 0 I
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 90 90 6 7 0 0 4 4 3 3
78 Moldova . . 0 . . .
79 Ukraine . . . 0 . . . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 0 0 98 70 0 0 2 30 I 24
81 Czechoslovakia 7 4 6 6 50 54 37 36 7 6
82 Kazakhstan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
83 Malaysia 30 17 63 22 2 38 6 23 I 6
Upper-middle-income
84 Botswana' . . . . . . . .
85 South Africab . . .
86 Lithuania . . . . . . . . . 0 0
87 Hungary 7 8 26 28 32 22 35 42 8 9
88 Venezuela 97 86 2 2 0 I I II 0 I
89 Argentina 8 85 64 4 7 10 21 I 2
90 Uruguay I 79 59 I 2 20 38 14 16
91 Brazil II 16 75 28 4 18 II 38 I 4
92 Mexico 19 41 49 14 II 24 22 20 3 2
93 Belarus
94 Russian Federation . . . 0 0 . . .
95 Latvia . . . . . . . . . . . . .
96 Trinidad and Tobago 78 65 9 6 I I 12 28
97 Gabon 56 89 35 7 I 0 8 4
98 Estonia . . . . . . .
99 Portugal 5 5 31 13 8 19 56 63 25 30
100 Oman
101 Puerto Rico
102 Korea, Rep. . Si I 21
103 Greece 14 15 51 33 I 4 33 48 7 26
104 Saudi Arabia 100 99 0 0 0 I 0 0 0 0
105 Yugoslavia 15 9 26 12 23 29 37 50 10 7
Low- and middle-income 37 w 32 w 39w 20w lOw 16w 19w 35w 7w 13w
Sub-Saharan Africa 41 w 58 w 51w 34w Ow 1w 7w 7w 1w 2w
East Asia & Pacific 22 w 12w 46w 16w 6w 25w 27w 47w 13w 19K
South Asia 9w 5w 44w 23w 3w 5w 45w 67w 28w 37w
Europe and Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa w 81 w 20w 9w 4w 1w 7w lOw 3w 4w
Latin America & Caribbean 40w 34w 51w 32w 2w 12w 9w 24w 1w 3w
Severely indebted 21 w 34 w 56w 30w 11w 13w 15w 25w 3w 4w
High-income economies 11w 8w 16w 11w 35w 42w 38w 39w 6w Sw
OECD members 9w 7w 16w 11w 36w 43w 38w 39w 6w 4w
106 Ireland 8 2 52 24 7 30 34 44 10 4
107 tIsrael 4 2 26 10 5 24 66 64 12 7
108 New Zealand I 8 88 65 2 5 9 22 I 2
109 Spain 10 7 37 17 20 41 34 35 6 4
IlO tHong Kong I 2 3 3 12 24 84 72 44 40
Ill tSingapore 25 18 45 8 II 48 20 26 5 5
112 UnitedKingdom 8 10 9 8 41 41 42 41 6 4
113 Australia 28 35 53 28 6 7 13 29 1 I
114 Italy 7 3 10 8 37 38 46 52 13 12
115 Netherlands 14 12 29 25 20 22 37 41 8 4
116 Belgiumc 13 8 II 12 21 27 55 54 10 7
117 Austria 6 4 14 7 24 38 56 51 II 8
118 France 6 5 19 17 33 39 42 39 8 5
119 Canada 26 19 22 17 32 38 19 26 I I
120 United States 9 6 21 14 42 48 28 32 2 2
121 Germanyd 6 4 5 6 47 49 43 41 6 5
122 Denmark 4 5 42 31 27 25 27 39 6 5
123 Finland 4 7 29 II 16 28 50 55 6 2
124 Norway 25 58 20 9 23 15 32 18 2 I
125 Sweden 8 6 18 9 40 43 35 42 3 2
126 Japan 2 I 5 1 41 66 53 31 Il 2
127 Switzerland 3 3 8 4 32 32 58 62 8 5
World 16w 13w 21w 13w 30w 37w 34w 38w 6w 6w
Fuelexporters 83w 89w 13w 6w 1w 1w 4w 4w 1w 1w
a. See the technical notes. b. Data are for the South African Customs Union comprising South Afnca, Namibia, Lesotho. Botswana. and Swaziland; trade among the
component territories is excluded. c. Includes Luxembourg. d. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

269


--- Page 284 ---
Table 17. OECD imports of manufactured goods: origin and composition

Value ofimportsof Compositionof/991 importsofmanufactures (percent)
manufactures, by origin Elecincal
(millions ofdollars) Textiles and machinery and Transport
/970 /991 clothing Chemicals electronics equipment Others
Low-income economies 1,266 t 73,602 t 40 w 4 w 7 w 2 w 46 w
China and India 777 1 55,576 t 37 w 5 w 9 w I w 48 w
Other low-income 4891 18,0261 51 w 3 w 2 w 4 w 41 w

I Mozansbique 7 10 60 0 0 0 40
2 Tanzania 9 48 56 4 0 2 38
3Ethiopia 4 59 12 9 2 5 73
4Uganda I 2 0 0 50 0 50
SBhutan 0 I 0 0 0 0 tOO

6 Guinea-Bissau 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
7 Nepal I 240 93 0 0 0 6
SBstnindi 0 2 50 0 0 0 50
9Chad 0 2 0 0 0 0 100
10 Madagascar 7 49 69 8 0 2 20
II Sierra Leone 2 135 I 0 1 0 99
12 Bangladesh 0 1.372 93 0 0 0 7
I3LaoPDR 0 26 92 0 0 0 8
14 Malawi I 18 67 0 0 0 33
l5Rwanda 0 2 0 0 0 50 50

16 Mali 2 51 0 0 20 0 80
17 BurkinaFaso 0 3 0 0 0 0 100
18 Niger 0 175 0 96 0 2 2
19 India 534 9,428 45 6 I I 47
20 Kenya 16 108 IS 5 3 6 72

21 Nigeria 13 238 6 16 2 2 74
22 China 243 46,148 35 5 II I 48
23 Haiti 17 301 60 I 10 0 29
24 Benin 0 4 50 0 0 25 25
25 Central African Rep. 12 80 0 0 0 0 100
26Ghana 8 98 0 1 I 0 98
27 Pakistan 207 3,234 85 0 0 0 IS
28Togo 0 9 II 0 0 0 89
29 Guinea 38 147 0 34 I 0 65
30 Nicaragua 6 7 14 14 14 0 57

31 Sn Lanka 9 1,346 73 I 2 0 24
32 Mauritania 0 4 25 0 25 0 50
33 Yemen, Rep. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
34 Honduras 3 261 82 I 0 0 17
35 . . . . . . . .

36 Indonesia 15 7,302 36 2 3 I 58
37 Eypt,ArabRep. 33 793 61 5 1 15 18
38 Zimbabwe 0 261 22 0 2 1 74
39 Sudan I 7 0 0 0 14 86
40 Zambia 4 40 23 0 0 5 73
Middle-income economies 5,016 1 185,948 1 25w 7w 18w 7w 44w
Lower-middle-income 1,778 I 66,559 1 33w 6w 18w 3w 41w

41 Bolivia I 54 20 6 0 0 74
42 Côted'Ivoire 7 239 21 2 I 2 75
43Senegal 4 34 3 12 15 3 68
44 Philippines 108 5,637 33 2 31 I 33
45 Papua New Guinea 4 35 6 0 0 3 91
46Caneroon 4 47 21 2 2 2 72
47 Guatemala 5 426 89 2 0 0 9
48 Dominican Rep. 10 1,807 55 I 7 0 38
49 Ecuador 3 83 17 4 5 6 69
50 Morocco 32 2,364 69 12 8 I 10
SI Jordan I 67 5 27 6 27 36
52 Tajikistan . . . . . . . . .
53 Peru 12 453 58 7 2 I 33
54 ElSalvador 2 184 65 I 22 0 13
55 Congo 4 205 0 0 0 0 100
56 Syrian Arab Rep. 2 53 68 0 2 8 23
57 Colombia 52 1,070 33 6 0 0 61
58 Paraguay 5 82 9 27 0 0 65
59 Uzbekistan .. .. .. ..
60 Jamaica 117 799 38 58 0 0 4

61 Rornania 188 1,648 32 6 4 3 56
62 Namibiaa .
63 Thnisia 19 2,135 70 7 9 2 12
64 Kyrgyzstan .. .. .. ..
65 Thailand 32 12.851 21 2 17 2 59

66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

270


--- Page 285 ---
Valueof imports of Composition sf1991 imports of manufactures(percent)
manufactures by origin Electrical
(millions of dollars) Textiles and machinery and Transport
1970 clothing Chemicals electronics equipment Others
67 Azerbaijan
68 Turkmenistan . . . 0 . . .. .
69 Thrkey 47 6,770 71 3 6 2 18
70 Poland 287 5,515 23 16 7 4 51
71 Bulgaria 68 553 29 18 6 1 47
72 Costa Rica 5 700 69 2 9 0 19
73 Algeria 39 1,686 0 4 0 0 96
74 Panama' 18 462 15 4 1 46 36
75 Armenia . . . . . . . . . .
76 Chile 15 697 9 26 0 2 63
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 133 676 92 1 0 0 7
78 Moldova .
79 Ukraine . . . . . . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 1 750 86 1 0 0 13
81 Czechoslovakia 467 4,930 16 14 5 9 56
82 Kazakhstan .. .. .. ..
83 Malaysia 39 12,857 14 3 48 2 34
Upper-middle-income 3,238 I 119,3891 21 w 7 w 17 w 10 w 45 w
84 Botswanaa . .
85 South Africaa 325 2,989 7 14 2 3 75
86 Lithuania . . . . . . . . . . .
87 Hungary 210 4,128 23 16 12 5 45
88 Venezuela 24 724 4 16 2 8 70
89 Argentina 104 1,375 8 23 2 4 64
90 Uruguay 23 300 51 3 0 1 45
91 Brazil 197 10,295 8 10 5 9 68
92 Mexico 508 26,519 5 4 32 21 38
93 Belarus
94 Russian Federation
95 Latvia
96 Trinidad and Tobago 0 31
97 Gabon 8 66 0 46 2 15 38
98 Estonia
99 Portugal 396 13,171 39 5 10 8 39
100 Oman 0 188 28 1 13 23 35
101 Puerto Rico . . . . . . . . . . .
102 Korea,Rep. 524 41,091 23 3 20 7 47
103 Greece 185 4,006 60 5 3 1 31
104 SaudiArabia 16 1,749 0 47 8 6 39
105 Yugoslavia 443 8,791 29 7 9 12 43
Low- and middle-income 6,282 259,562 29 w 6w 15w 6w 44wSub-Saharan Africa 193 t 4,223: 21w 8w 1w 11w 58 w
East Asia & Pacific 1,087 128,170 28 w 3w 19 w 3w 47 w
South Asia 760 15,695 61 w 4w 1w 1w 34 w
Europe and Central Asia 2,316 1 50,571 1 37 w 8w 9w 6w 40 w
Middle East & N. Africa 306 1 10,385 1 42 w 17w 6w 4w 32 w
Latin America & Caribbean 1,295 47,529 13 w 8w 20 w 14 w 45 w
Severely indebted 1,420 I 50,899 12w 9w 19w 14w 47w
High-income economies 120,492 1 1,578,136 t 6w 13 w 12w 19w 50 w
OECD members 117,366: 1,472,714: 5w 13 w 11w 20 w 50 w
106 Ireland 439 15,906 7 29 11 2 51
107 tlsrael 308 7,878 10 14 10 4 62
108 New Zealand 121 1,967 9 23 7 4 57
109 Spain 773 33,133 4 9 8 36 43
110 tHong Kong 1,861 24,794 43 1 13 1 43
111 tSingapore 112 20,668 5 6 29 2 58
112 UnitedKingdom 10,457 108,160 5 17 10 14 53
113 Australia 471 6,676 4 32 5 11 49
114 Italy 7,726 113,636 16 8 8 11 57
115 Netherlands 5,678 74,299 7 27 9 10 47
116 Belgiumc 7,660 80,272 9 20 6 22 4.4
117 Austria 1,637 29,461 9 9 13 7 62
118 France 9,240 137,947 6 16 9 26 44
119 Canada 8,088 73,986 1 8 8 39 43
120 United States 21,215 213,854 2 12 13 22 51
121 Germany 23,641 266,516 5 15 11 20 50
122 Denmark 1,413 18,766 8 14 10 5 63
123 Finland 1,170 16,343 3 8 9 7 73
124 Norway 1,059 9,007 2 21 8 11 59
125 Sweden 4,143 39,320 2 11 9 19 60
126 Japan 8,851 184,917 1 4 20 31 45
127 Switzerland 3,568 48,409 5 22 10 3 60
World 126,774 1 1,837,698 1 9 w 12w 12w 17w SOwFuel exporters 290 I 7,401 15 w 23w 3w 3w 56w

Note: Data cover high-income OECD countries only. a. Data are for the South African Customs Union comprising South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, Botswana, and
Swaziland; trade among the component territories is excluded. b. Excludes the Canal Zone. c. Includes Luxembourg.

271


--- Page 286 ---
Table 18. Balance of payments and reserves

Current account balance Gross international reserves
(millionsofdollars) Net workersremittances
After official transfers Before official transfers (millions ofdollars) Millions ofdollars importMonthsof
coverage
1970 1991 1970 199/ /970 1991 /970 1991 1991
Low-income economies 3,907 86,647 1 5.1 w
China and India 1,023 55,781 1 7.9 w
Other low-income 2,884 I 30,8661 3.1 w

I Mozambique . . -245 . . -783 -30° . . 240 2.3
2 Tanzania -36 _284a 37 _832a . 65 204 1.4
3 Ethiopia -32 _222a 43 _585a . 201 72 106 1.0
4 Uganda 20 _182a 19 _393a .5 . . 57 59 1.0
5 Bhutan . l7a -36° . . 0 . . 99 9.3

6 Guinea-Bissau . . -19 . . -86 . . -2 . . .
7 Nepal _la -320° -25° -380° . . 0° 94 451 5.9
8 Burundi 2 3la _2l4a . 15 147 5.0
9 Chad 2 -80 -33 -347 -6 -39 2 124 2.6
10 Madagascar 10 -192 -42 -318 -26 I 37 89 1.2

11 Sierra Leone -16 -95 -20 -136 . . . . 39 10 0.2
12 Bangladesh -1 l4a -210° _234a 932a 0° 764a 1,308 4.0
13 La0PDR . . -52 . . -121 . . . . 6 61 3.3
14 Malawi -35 I84a -46 -244 -4 0 29 158 2.5
IS Rwanda 7 -34 -12 -194 -4 -II 8 110 3.7

16 Mali -2 -37 -22 -344 -1 76 1 326 4.5
17 Burkina Faso 9 -90 -21 -426 16 79 36 350 4.8
18 Niger 0 -4 -32 -164 -3 -38 19 207 5.3
19 India _385a _3.026a _S9la .3,477a 80 2,540° 1.023 7,616 3.3
20 Kenya -49 -231 -86 -435 -2 220 145 0.6

21 Nigeria -368 1,203 -412 470 . . 12 223 4,678 4.4
22 Chinat _8la 13,272 _8la 12,885 0° 189 . . 48,165 10.1
23 Haiti II -II 4 -176 13 86 4 24 0.6
24 Benin -3 -89 -23 -174 0 70 16 196 3.6
25 Central African Rep. -12 -80° -24 _2l9a 4 36 I 107 4.4
26 Ghana -68 -220° -76 442a 9 0 43 644 4.4
27 Pakistan -667 -1,558 -705 -2,171 86 1,848 195 1,220 1.2
28 Togo 3 -83 -14 -170 -3 5 35 369 5.0
29 Guinea . . -236° . . -329° 0 .
30 Nicaragua -40 -5 -43 -849 . . 10 49 .

31 Sri Lanka -59 -268 -71 -472 3 442 43 724 2.5
32 Mauritania -5 -125 -13 -209 -6 0 3 72 1.2
33 Yemen, Rep. . 22a _06a 800° . . .
34 Honduras -64 -220 -68 -368 . . 0 20 112 1.0
35 Lesotho l8a 63 -1° -443 29° 0 . . 115 1.3
36 Indonesia -310 -4,080 -376 -4,212 . . 130 160 10,358 3.3
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. -148 2,404a -452 2,438a 29 3755a 165 6,185 4.4
38 Zimbabwe -l4 552a _26a _693a 0 59 295 1.4
39 Sudan -42 _l,652a ,g57a 62a 22 8 0.0
40 Za,nbia 108 Ia 107 _487a -48 0 515 186 1.4
Middle-income economies 23,267 1 241,422 1 3.6 w
Lower-middle-income 13,049 1 103,643 1 3.6 w
41 Bolivia 4 -262 2 -422 . . -1 46 422 3.7
42 Côted'Ivoire -38 -1,451 -73 -1,614 -56 -491 119 29 0.1
43 Senegal -16 -133 -66 -503 -16 32 22 23 0.1
44 Philippines -48 -1,034 -138 -1,388 329 255 4,436 3.3
45 Papua New Guinea -89° _838a -239° - I ,053 57a 345 1.6
46 Cameroon -30 -658° -47 _658a II 3 81 43 0.2
47 Guatemala -8 -184 -8 -186 . . 123 79 881 4.8
48 Dominican Rep. -102 -58 -103 -115 25 330 32 448 2.2
49 Ecuador -113 -467 -122 -577 . . 0 76 1,081 3.2
50 Morocco -124 -396 -161 -676 27 1,973 142 3,349 4.5
SI Jordan -20 _712a -130 -876° . . 450° 258 1,105 3.4
52 Tajikistan .. .. .. .. ..
53 Peru 202 -1,478 146 -1,794 . . . . 339 3,090 6.1
54 El Salvador 9 -168 7 -369 . . 468 64 453 3.1
55 Congo -45° -169 .53a -231 ...3 53a 9 9 0.1
56 Syrian Arab Rep. -69 1,827 -72 1,747 7 375 57 .
57 Colombia -293 2,349 -333. 2,363 6 866 207 6,335 8.6
58 Paraguay -16 476a -19 476a 0 18 974 5.2
59 Uzbekistan .. .. .. .. .. ..
60 Jamaica -153 -198 -149 -303 29 144 139 106 0.5

61 Romania -23 -1,184 -23 -1,306 1,219 2.4
62 Namibia . 82a 257 . . . . . . .
63 TUnisia -53 -191 -88 -322 20 562 60 866 1.6
64 Kyrgyzstan .. .. .. .. ..
65 Thailand -250 -7,564 -296 -7,609 . . 0 911 18,393 4.8
66 Georgia ..
* Data forlaiwan, China, are: I 12,015 2 12,036 . . 627 74,548 11.2

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

272


--- Page 287 ---
Current account balance Gross international reserves
(millions Net wor*ersof dollars) remittances
After official transfers Before official transfers (millions of dollars) Millions of dollars importMonths of
coverage
1970 1991 1970 1991 /970 1991 /970 /99/ 199/
67 Azerbaijan S
68 Turkmenistan .. .. S
69 Turkey -44 272 -57 -1,973 273 2,819 6.616 2,9
70 Poland -1.282 -2,191 0 3,800 2.1
71 Bulgaria _718a 7lg
72 CostaRica -74 -82 -77 -165 . 0 16 931 4.5
73 Algeria -125 2.555a -163 2.555a 178 274 352 3.460 3.5
74 Panama -64 135 -79 -lOS . . 16 499 0.9
75 Armenia . . . . . . . . .
76 Chile -91 142 -95 -158 . 0 392 7,700 7.8
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. -507 _7,806a -511 _7,806a . 217
78 Moldova
79 Ukraine ..
80 Mauritius 8 -37 5 -39 46 915 5.5
81 Czechoslovakia 146 947a 156 96la 4,176 3.8
82 Kazakhstan ..
83 Malaysia 8 -4.530 2 -4,617 . 0 667 11.717 3.2
Upper-middle-income 10,219 r 137,779 1 3.6 w
84 Botswana -30 47 -35 -251 -9 0 . . 3,772 17.6
85 South Africa -1,215 2,664 -1.253 2,696 . . 1.057 3,187 1.5
86 Lithuania . . . . . . . .
87 Hungary 403 370k . . . . 4,028 37
88 Venezuela -104 1,663 -98 1,696 -87 -661 1,047 14,719 10.8
89 Argentina -163 -2,832 -160 -2,832 . . . . 642 8,073 5.5
90 Umguay -45 lOS -55 65 . . 186 1,146 5.9
91 Brazil -837 _3,071a -861 _3,Ø73a . 0 1,190 8,749 2.7
92 Mexico -1,068 -13.282 -1,098 -13,468 1,853 756 18,052 3.7
93 Belarus . . . . . . . . . . . .
94 Russian Federation . . . . . . . . . . .
95 Larvia . . . . . . . . . . . . .
96 Tnnidadandlobago -109 -17 -104 -20 3 5 43 358 1.9
97 Gabon -3 -160 -IS -185 -8 -125 15 332 3.6
98 Estonia . . . . . . . . . . .
99 Portugal _I58 -716 -l58 -2,098 504 4,517 1,565 26,239 10.5
100 Oman . . 1,095 . . /153 . . -845 13 1,765 5.5
101 Puerto Rico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
102 Korea, Rep. -623 -8.726 -706 -8,553 . . . . 610 13.815 3.8
103 Greece -422 -1,521 -424 -5,555 333 2,115 318 6,400 3.5
104 Saudi Arabia 71 -25,738 152 -19,250 -183 -13,746 670 13.298 2.4
105 Yugoslavia -372 -1,161 -378 -1,159 441 2,024 143 3,360 2.0
Low- and middle-income 27,175 1 328,069 1 4.0 w
Sub-Saharan Africa 2,0281 14,735 1 3.0 w
East Asia & Pacific 2,983 r 108,057 1 4.3 w
South Asia 1,4041 12,018 1 2.8 w
Europe and Central Asia 9,699 1 71,9871 4.3 w
Middle East & N. Africa 4,477 t 43,101 I 3.0 w
Latin America & Caribbean 5,527 1 74,986 1 4.6 w
Severely indebted 11,7261 66,599 1 3.3 w
High-income economies 71,7621 851,0611 2.7 wOECD members 69,820 1 797,852 1 2.6 w

306 Ireland -198 92/ -228 -1,761 698 5,867 2.!
107 tlsrael -562 -822 -766 -5,257 . . . . 452 6.428 3.0
108 New Zealand -232 -20 -222 30 16 245 258 2,950 2.6
109 Spain 79 -15.954 79 -19,810 469 1,603 1,851 71,345 7.1
110 tHong Kong 225 2,487 225 2,487 . . . . . . .
III tSingapore -572 4.208 -585 4,350 . . . . 1,012 34,133 5.4
112 United Kingdom 1,970 -11.438 2,376 -9,575 . . 2,764 48,373 1.5
113 Australia -785 -9,853 -691 -9,655 . . . . 1,709 19,339 3.4
114 Italy 798 -21,454 1,094 -16,670 446 779 5,547 72,254 3.3
115 Netherlands -489 8.760 -513 11.950 -51 -315 3.362 33,335 2.4
116 Belgium' 717 4.731 904 6.201 38 -274 . . .
117 Austria -75 -252 -73 -144 -7 367 1,806 17,415 2.7
118 France -204 -6.148 IS -1,194 -641 -1,786 5,199 60,227 2.0
119 Canada 1,008 -25,529 960- -24,600 . . . . 4,733 20,836 1.4
120 United States 2,330 -3,690 4,680 -24.670 -650 -7,600 15.237 159.273 2.6
121 Germany' 837 -19.497 1,839 9.978 -1,366 -4,213 13,879 96,657 2.3
122 Denmark -544 2,167 -510 2.513 488 7,990 1.7
123 Finland -240 -6,695 -233 -5,998 . . . . 455 8,317 2.8
124 Norway -242 4,939 -200 6,125 . . -140 813 13.651 3.7
125 Sweden -265 -3.243 -160 -1.636 . . 20 775 20,477 3.0
126 Japan 1,990 72,905 2.170 84,740 . . . . 4,876 80,626 2.4
127 Switzerland 161 9,847 203 10,307 -313 -2,062 5,317 58,451 6.5
World 98,937 1 1,179,1301 3.0 wFuel exporters 4,693 1 52,194 1 3.9 w

a. World Bank estimate. b. Includes Luaembourg. c. Data prior to July 1990 refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

273


--- Page 288 ---
Table 19. Official development assistance from OECD and OPEC members
OECD: Total net flows /965 /970 1975 1980 1985 /988 1989 1990 1991

Millions ofUS dollars

106 Ireland 0 0 8 30 39 57 49 57 72
108 New Zealand . 14 66 72 54 104 87 95 100
112 UnitedKingdom 472 500 904 1,854 1,530 2,645 2,587 2,638 3,348
113 Australia 119 212 552 667 749 1,101 1,020 955 1,050
114 Italy 60 147 182 683 1,098 3,193 3,613 3,395 3,352
115 Netherlands 70 196 608 1,630 1.136 2,331 2,094 2,592 2,517
116 Belgium 102 120 378 595 440 601 703 889 831
117 Austria 10 II 79 178 248 301 283 394 548
118 France 752 971 2,093 4,162 3,995 6,865 7,450 9,380 7,484
119 Canada 96 337 880 1,075 1,631 2,347 2,320 2,470 2,604
120 UnitedStates 4,023 3,153 4,161 7,138 9,403 10,141 7,676 11,394 11,362
121 Germanyb 456 599 1,689 3,567 2,942 4.731 4,949 6,320 6,890
122 Denmark 13 59 205 481 440 922 937 1,171 1,300
123 Finland 2 7 48 110 211 608 706 846 930
124 Norway II 37 184 486 574 985 917 1,305 1.178
125 Sweden 38 117 566 962 840 1,534 1,799 2,012 2,116
126 Japan 244 458 1,148 3,353 3,797 9.134 8,965 9,069 10,952
127 Switzerland 12 30 104 253 302 617 558 750 863

Total 6,480 6,968 13,855 27,396 29,429 48,114 46,713 55,632 55.519

As a percentageofdonor GNP
106 Ireland 0.00 0.00 0.09 0.16 0.24 0.20 0.17 0.16 0.19
108 New Zealand . . 0.23 0.52 0.33 0.25 0.27 0.22 0.23 0.25
112 UnitedKingdom 0.47 0.41 0.39 0.35 0.33 0.32 0.31 0.27 0.32
113 Australia 0.53 0.59 0.65 0.48 0.48 0.46 0.38 0.34 0.38
114 Italy 0.10 0.16 0.11 0.15 0.26 0.39 0.42 0.32 0.30
115 Netherlands 0.36 0.61 0.75 0.97 0.91 0.98 0.94 0.94 0.88
116 Belgium 0.60 0.46 0.59 0.50 0.55 0.39 0.46 0.45 0.42
117 Austria 0.11 0.07 0.21 0.23 0.38 0.24 0.23 0.25 0.34
118 France 0.76 0.66 0.62 0.63 0.78 0.72 0.78 0.79 0.62
119 Canada 0.19 0.41 0.54 0.43 0.49 0.50 0.44 0.44 0.45
120 United States 0.58 0.32 0.27 0.27 0.24 0.21 0.15 0.21 0.20
121 Germanyt 0.40 0.32 0.40 0.44 0.47 0.39 0.41 0.42 0.41
122 Denmark 0.13 0.38 0.58 0.74 0.80 0.89 0.93 0.93 0.96
123 Finland 0.02 0.06 0.18 0.22 0.40 0.59 0.63 0.64 0.76
124 Norway 0.16 0.32 0.66 0.87 1.01 1.13 1.05 1.17 1.14
125 Sweden 0.19 0.38 0.82 0.78 0.86 0.86 0.96 0.90 0.92
126 Japan 0.27 0.23 0.23 0.32 0.29 0.32 0.31 0.31 0.32
127 Switzerland 0.09 0.15 0.19 0.24 0.31 0.32 0.30 0.31 0.36

National currencies

106 Ireland (millions of pounds) 0 0 4 15 37 37 34 35 41
108 New Zealand (millions of dollars) . . 13 55 74 109 158 146 160 185
112 UnitedKingdom(millionsofpounds) 169 208 409 798 1,180 1,485 1,577 1,478 1,736
113 Australia (millions of dollars) 106 189 402 591 966 1404 1,386 1.323 1,382
114 Italy (billions of lire) 38 92 119 585 2,097 4,156 4,958 4,068 3,859
115 Netherlands (millions ofguilders) 253 710 1,538 3,341 3,773 4,410 4,440 4,720 4,306
116 Belgium(millionsoffrancs) 5,100 6,000 13,902 17,399 26,145 22,088 27,714 29.720 26,050
117 Austria (millions ofschillings) 260 286 1,376 2,303 5,132 3,722 3,737 4.477 5,861
118 France(millionsoffrancs) 3,713 5,393 8,971 17,589 35,894 40,897 47,529 51,076 38,777
119 Canada(millionsofdollars) 104 353 895 1,357 2,327 2,888 2,747 2,882 3,009
120 UnitedStates(millionsofdollars) 4,023 3,153 4,161 7,138 9,403 10,141 7,676 11,394 11,362
121 Germany(millionsofdeutschemarks)b 1,824 2,192 4,155 6,484 8,661 8,319 9,302 10,311 10,446
122 Denmark(millionsofkroner) 90 443 1,178 2,711 4,657 6,304 6,850 7,347 7,096
123 Finland(millionsofmarkkaa) 6 29 177 414 1,308 2,542 3,031 3,336 3,845
124 Norway(millionsofkroner) 79 264 962 2,400 4,946 6,418 6,335 7,542 7,037
125 Sweden(millionsofkronor) 197 605 2,350 4,069 7,326 9,396 11,600 11,909 11,704
126 Japan(billionsofyen) 88 165 341 760 749 1,171 1,336 1,313 1,371
127 Switzerland(millionsoffrancs) 52 131 268 424 743 903 912 1,041 1,170

SUInmaI7 BillionsofUS dollars

ODA (current prices) 6.5 7.0 13.9 27.3 29.4 48.1 46.7 55.6 55.5
ODA (1987 prices) 28.2 25.3 29.8 36.8 39.4 44.9 43.6 47.6 45.7

GNP (current prices) 1,374.0 2,079.0 4,001.0 7,488.0 8,550.0 13,547.0 13,968.0 15,498.0 16,818.6

Percent
ODAasapercentageofGNP 0.47 0.34 0.35 0.35 0.34 0.34 0.32 0.33 0.33

Indec (1987 = 100)

GDP deflator' 23.0 27.6 46.5 74.1 74.6 107.1 107.5 116.8 121.4

274


--- Page 289 ---
OECD: Total net bilateral flows tolow-income economies' 1970 1975 1980 1985 1986 /988 /990 1991
1965 /989

As a percentageofdonor GNP

106 Ireland . . 0.01 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01
108 NewZealand . . . 0.14 0.01 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.00
112 United Kingdom 0.23 0.09 0.11 0.10 0.07 0.07 0.06 0.07 0.05
113 Australia 0.08 0.00 0.10 0.07 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.06 0.05
114 Italy 0.04 0.06 0.01 0.00 0.06 0.12 0.17 0.12 0.09
115 Netherlands 0.08 0.24 0.24 0.32 0.23 0.28 0.27 0.23 0.25
116 Belgium 0.56 0.30 0.31 0.13 0.13 0.12 0.09 0.05 0.09
117 Austna 0.06 0.05 0.02 0.11 0.05 0.03 0.03 0.07 0.10
118 France 0.12 0.09 0.10 0.06 0.11 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.13
119 Canada 0.10 0.22 0.24 0.13 0.14 0.13 0.13 0.09 0.10
120 United States 0.26 0.14 0.08 0.06 0.06 0.04 0.03 0.02 0.05
121 Germanyb 0.14 0.10 0.12 0.07 0.13 0.10 0.08 0.08 0.10
122 Denmarl 0.02 0.10 0.20 0.17 0.26 0.23 0.25 0.26 0.24
123 Finland . . . . 0.06 0.03 0.09 0.10 0.24 0.22 0.17
124 Norway 0.04 0.12 0.25 0.28 0.34 0.43 0.37 0.32 0.37
125 Sweden 0.07 0.12 0.41 0.26 0.24 0.30 0.21 0.23 0.25
126 Japan 0.13 0.11 0.08 0.12 0.10 0.10 0.13 0.13 0.10
127 Switzerland 0.02 0.05 0.10 0.07 0.11 0.10 0.10 0.12 0.11

Total 0.20 0.13 0.!! 0.08 0.08 0.08 0.09 0.08 0.09

OPEC: Total net flowsd 1976 1980 /984 /985 1986 /987 /988 1989 1990 /99/

Millions ofUS dollars

21 Nigeria 80 35 51 45 52 30 14 70 13
Qatar ISO 277 10 8 IS 0 4 -2 I
73 Algeria II 81 52 54 114 39 13 40 7 5
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 751 -72 52 -72 69 -10 39 -94 2
88 Venezuela 109 135 90 32 85 24 55 52 15
Iraq 123 864 -22 -32 -21 -35 -22 21 55 0
Libya 98 376 24 57 68 66 129 86 4 25
104 SaudiArabia 2,791 5,682 3,194 2,630 3,517 2,888 2,048 1,171 3,692 1,704
United Arab Emirates 1,028 1,118 88 122 87 15 -17 2 888 558
Kuwait 706 1,140 1,020 771 715 316 108 169 1,666 387

Total OPEC 5,877 9,636 4,559 3,615 4,704 3,333 2,369 1,514 6,34!
Total OAPECC 4,937 9,538 4,366 3,610 4,498 3,389 2,36! .

As a percentageofdonor GNP

21 Nigeria 0.19 0.04 0.06 0.06 0.13 0.12 0.05 0.28 0.06
Qatar 7.35 4.16 0.18 0.12 0.36 0.00 0.08 -0.04 0.02 0.01
73 Algeria 0.07 0.20 0.10 0.10 0.19 0,07 0.03 0.11 0.03 0.01
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 1.16 -0.08 0.03 -0.04 0.03 0.00 0.01 -0.02
88 Venezuela 0.35 0.23 0.16 0.06 0.14 0.06 0.09 0.13 0.03
Iraq 0.76 2.36 -0.05 -0.06 -0.05 -0.08 -0.04 0.04 . .
Libya 0.66 1.16 0.10 0.24 0.30 0.30 0.63 0.41 0.01 0.09
104 SaudiArabia 5.95 4.87 3.20 2.92 3.99 3.70 2.53 1.37 3.90 1.44
United Arab Emirates 8.95 4.06 0.3Z 0.45 0.41 0.07 -0.07 0.02 2.65 1.66
Kuwait 4.82 3.52 3.95 2.96 2.84 1.15 0.40 0.54

Tota!OPECd 2.32 1.85 0.76 0.60 0.78 0.52 0.34 0.21
Total OAPECC 4.23 3.22 1.60 1.39 1.80 1.10 0.86

a. Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development. b. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification. c. See the technical notes.
d. OrganizationofPetmleum Exporting Countries. e. Organization of Arab Peftoleum Exporting Countries.

275


--- Page 290 ---
Table 20. Official development assistance: receipts

Net disbursementofODA from all sources

Millions of dollars Per capita As percentage
(dollars) of GNP
1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 199! 1991 /991
Low-income economies 17,432 t 19,484 t 21,412 t 24,513 1 24,763 t 30,653 1 31,921 t 10.2 w 3.0 w
China and India 2,532 t 3,254 t 3,300 t 4,086 I 4,048 t 3,605 t 4,701 I 2.3 w 0.8 w
Other low-income 14,900 t 16,230 t 18,112 t 20,427 t 20,715 I 27,047 1 27,220i 24.5 w 6.6 w

I Mozambique 300 422 65l 893 772 935 920 57.0 69.2
2 Tanzania 484 681 882 982 920 1,141 1,076 42.7 39.2
3 Ethiopia 710 636 634 970 752 1,014 1,091 20.7 16.5
4 Uganda 180 198 280 363 443 551 525 31.1 19.5
5 Bhutan 24 40 42 42 42 48 64 43.8 25.9
6 Guinea-Bissau 58 71 III 99 lOt 117 101 101.3 48.2
7 Nepal 234 301 347 399 493 430 453 23.4 13.8
8 Burundi 139 187 202 189 l99 265 253 44.7 21.8
9 Chad 181 165 198 264 24! 303 262 44.9 20.2
10 Madagascar 185 316 321 304 321 386 437 36.3 16.4
II Siena Leone 65 87 68 102 l0O 65 105 24.7 12.9
12 Bangladesh 1,131 1,455 1,635 1,592 1,800 2,048 1,636 14.8 7.0
13 Lao PDR 37 48 58 77 140 152 131 30.8 12.8
14 Malawi 113 198 280 366 412 48! 495 56.2 22.6
IS Rwanda 180 211 245 252 232 293 351 49.2 22.2

16 Mali 376 372 366 427 454 467 455 52.2 l8.5
17 BurkinaFaso l95 284 281 298 272 336 409 44.1 l4.8
18 Niger 303 307 353 371 296 39! 376 47.5 l6.5
19 India 1,592 2,120 1,839 2,097 1,895 1,524 2,747 3.2 I.!
20 Kenya 430 455 572 808 967 l,053 873 34.9 10.6

21 Nigeria 1,032 59 69 l20 346 250 262 2.6 0.8
22 China 940 1,134 1,462 1,989 2,153 2,08! 1,954 1.7 0.5
23 Haiti 150 175 218 147 200 172 182 27.5 6.9
24 Benin 94 138 138 162 263 27! 256 52.4 13.6
25 CentralAfrican Rep. 104 139 176 196 192 244 174 56.5 13.8

26 Ghana 196 371 373 474 550 498 724 47.2 11.3
27 Pakistan 769 970 879 1,408 1,129 1,149 1,226 l0.6 2.7
28 Togo III 174 126 199 183 24! 204 54.0 12.5
29 Guinea 115 l75 213 262 346 296 371 63.1 12.6
30 Nicaragua 102 ISO 141 213 225 320 826 217.8 12.0
3l SriLanka 468 570 502 598 547 674 814 47.4 8.8
32 Mauritania 207 225 185 l84 242 202 208 l02.9 18.4
33 Yemen, Rep. 392 328 422 304 370 405 313 25.0 3.9
34 Honduras 270 283 258 32! 242 450 275 52.2 9.1
35 Lesotho 93 88 107 l08 127 139 123 67.9 18.9
36 Indonesia 603 7!! l,246 1,632 1,839 1,724 1,854 l0.2 1.6
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 1,760 1,716 1,773 l,537 1,568 5,444 4,988 93.l l5.2
38 Zimbabwe 237 225 294 273 265 340 393 39.0 6.2
39 Sudan l,128 945 898 937 772 825 887 34.3
40 Zambia 322 464 430 478 392 486 884 106.3
Middle-income economies 9,037 1 9,439: 10,4301 9,621 1 10,013 t 15,412 1 15,500 1 16.2 w 0.7 w
Lower-middle-income 7,049 t 8,087 1 9,027 t 8,257 1 8,533 1 13,629 t 13,6391 24.3 w 1.8w

41 Bolivia 197 322 318 394 440 506 473 64.4 9.4
42 Côted'!voire 117 186 254 439 403 693 633 51.2 6.6
43 Senegal 289 567 641 569 650 788 577 75.7 10.0
44 Philippines 460 956 770 854 844 1,279 1,051 l6.7 2.3
45 Papua New Guinea 257 263 322 380 339 416 397 100.l 10.6
46 Cameroon 153 224 213 284 458 431 501 42.2 4.3
47 Guatemala 83 135 241 235 261 203 197 20.8 2.1
48 DominicanRep. 207 93 I30 118 142 100 66 9.1 0.9
49 Ecuador 136 l47 203 137 160 155 220 20.4 1.9
50 Morocco 766 403 447 480 450 1,026 1,075 41.9 3.9
SI Jordan 538 564 577 417 273 884 905 247.1 22.0
52 Tajikistan .. .. .. .. . . .. ..
53 Peru 316 272 292 272 305 395 590 26.9 1.2
54 El Salvador 345 341 426 420 443 349 290 54.9 4.9
55 Congo 69 110 152 89 91 214 133 56.8 4.6

56 SyrianArabRep. 6l0 728 684 191 127 684 373 29.8 2.2
57 Colombia 62 63 78 61 67 88 123 3.8 0.3
58 Paraguay 50 66 8l 76 92 56 l44 32.6 2.3
59 Uzbekistan .. .. .. .. .. ..
60 Jamaica 169 178 168 193 262 273 l66 69.7 4.7

61 Romania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
62 Namibia 6 IS 17 22 59 123 184 124.0 8.1
63 Tunisia 163 222 274 316 283 393 322 39.l 2.5
64 Kyrgyzstan .. .. .. .. .. ..
65 Thailand 459 496 504 563 739 802 722 12.6 0.8

66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

276


--- Page 291 ---
Net disbursement ofODA from all sources

Millionsofdollars Per cc9sita As percentage
(dollars) ofGNP
1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1991 /991
67 Azerbaijan . . . . . .
68 Turkmenistan .. .. .. .. .. ..
69 Thrkey 179 339 376 267 140 1,219 1,675 29.2 1.6
70 Poland
71 Bulgaria 0
72 Costa Rica 280 196 228 187 226 227 173 56.4 3.1
73 Algeria 173 165 214 171 152 217 310 12.1 0.7
74 Panama 69 52 40 22 18 93 101 40.9 1.8
75 Armenia . . . . . . . . . . . S . .
76 Chile 40 -5 21 44 61 102 120 9.0 0.4
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 16 27 71 82 96 105 194 3.4 0.2
78 Moldova .
79 Ukraine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 27 56 65 59 58 89 67 61.8 2.5
81 Czechoslovakia .
82 Kazakhstan .. .. .. .. .. ..
83 Malaysia 229 192 363 104 140 469 289 I5.9 0.6
Upper-middle-income 1,988 1 1,353 1 1,403 1 1,365 1 1,480 1 1,783 1 1,862 1 4.7 w 0.1 w
84 Botswana 96 102 156 151 160 149 135 102.5 3.7
85 South Africa . . .
86 Lithuania .
87 Hungary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
88 Venezuela 11 16 19 18 21 79 33 1.7 0.1
89 Argentina 39 88 99 152 211 171 253 7.7 0.2
90 Uruguay 5 27 18 41 38 47 51 16.3 0.5
91 Brazil 123 178 289 210 206 167 182 1.2 0.0
92 Mexico 144 252 155 173 86 141 185 2.2 0.1
93 Belanis
94 Russian Federation . . . .
95 Latvia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
96 TrinidadandTobago 7 19 34 9 6 18 -2 -1.3 0.0
97 Gabon 61 79 82 106 133 132 142 121.4 2.9
98 Estonia
99 Portugal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
100 Oman 78 84 16 I 18 66 14 8.8 0.1
101 PuertoRico . . . . . . 0 . . . . .
102 Korea, Rep. -9 -18 II 10 52 52 54 1.3 0.0
103 Greece Il 19 35 35 30 37 39 3.8 0.1
104 Saudi Arabia 29 31 22 19 36 44 45 2.9 0.0
105 Yugoslavia II 19 35 44 43 47 159 6.6
Low- and middle-income 26,469 1 29,155 32,027 I 34,286 1 34,934 1 46,127 I 47,453 I 11.6w 1.5 w
Sub-Saharan Africa 9,522 t 10,587 1 11,9261 13,470 13,8481 16,538 I 16,158 I 33.1 w 10.0 w
East Asia & Pacific 4,881 4,955 1 5,935 6,869 1 7,251 1 8,007 1 7,594 I 4.5 w 0.7 w
South Asia 4,244 I 5,4741 5,307 1 6,236 6,101 6,030 I 7,488 1 6.5 w 2.1 w
Europe and Central Asia 247 1 403 1 458 1 359 1 207 I 1,307 1,8961 20.6 w 1.0 w
Middle East & N. Africa 4,710 1 4,474 t 4,700 1 3,670 I 3,517 I 9,747 1 9,300 1 38.1 w 2.3 w
Latin America & Caribbean 3,024 1 3,262 1 3,701 I 3,682 I 4,010 1 4,498 5,017 1 11.4 w 0.5 w
Severely indebted 3,633 1 3,851 1 4,166 I 3,5441 3,373 1 5,976 1 6,488 1 14.9w 0.6 w
High-income economies 2,2321 2,3061 1,7461 1,6551 1,6671 1,8041 2,1501 55.3 w 0.4 wOECD members

106 Ireland .. .. .. .. .. ..
107 tlsrael 1,978 1,937 1,251 1,241 1,192 1,372 1,749 353.6 2.8
108 New Zealand
109 Spain . . . . . . . . . 0 . .
110 tHongKong 20 I8 19 22 40 38 36 6.3 0.0
Ill tSingapore 24 29 23 22 95 -3 8 2.8 0.0
112 United Kingdom 0
113 Australia . . . .
114 Italy . . . .
115 Netherlands .
116 Belgium
117 Austria
118 France
119 Canada
120 United States
121 Germany
122 Denmark
123 Finland
124 Norway
125 Sweden
126 Japan
127 Switzerland
World 28,701 1 31,461 r 33,773 1 35,491 1 36,601 1 47,931 1 49,603 1 12.0 w 1.4 w
Fuel exporters 1,606 1 805 1 1,033 I 781 1 1,076 1 1,468 1 1,948 1 7.5 w 0.3 w

277


--- Page 292 ---
Table 21. Total external debt

Total arrears
Use of IMF credit on LDOD Ratio of present
Long-tenn debt (millions of Short-term debt Total external debt (millions of value to nominal
(millions of dollars) dollars) (millions ofdollars) (millions ofdollars) dollars) value of debt

1980 199! 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 199! 1980 1991 1991
low-income economies
China and India
Other low-income

I Mozambique 0 4,055 0 118 0 527 0 4,700 0 1,442 82.7
2 Tanzania 1,999 5,798 171 143 306 519 2,476 6,460 3 1,257 74.7
3 Ethiopia 669 3,301 79 0 57 174 804 3,475 I 388 68.9
4 Uganda 542 2325 89 330 64 175 695 2.830 20 470 63.2
5 Bhuian 0 86 0 0 0 1 0 87 0 0 58.4
6 Guinea-Bissau 128 574 I 5 5 74 134 653 I 89 69.6
7 Nepal 156 1.705 42 39 7 26 205 1.769 0 12 46.8
8 Bunsndi 118 899 36 49 12 13 166 961 0 0 47.7
9 Chad 204 547 14 3! II 29 229 606 6 18 48.0
10 Madagascar 892 3,381 87 127 244 208 1,223 3,715 6 366 71.6
II Sierra Leone 323 642 59 101 53 547 435 1,291 7 396 84.8
12 Bangladesh 3,417 12,103 424 727 212 22! 4,053 13,051 0 18 49.1
13 La0PDR 277 1,096 16 21 I 4 295 1,121 I I 26.8
14 Malawi 625 1,530 80 115 116 31 821 1,676 3 7 49.8
IS Rwanda ISO 780 14 13 26 52 190 845 0 19 49.5

16 Mali 669 2,392 39 60 24 79 732 2,531 1 164 58.3
17 BurkinaFaso 28! 871 IS 9 35 76 330 956 0 37 59.9
18 Niger 687 1.503 16 73 159 77 863 1.653 0 77 65.5
19 India 18,709 64,315 977 3.451 926 3,791 20,611 71,557 0 0 78.9
20 Kenya 2,557 5,776 254 493 638 744 3,449 7,014 0 108 77.3

21 Nigeria 5.381 33,588 0 0 3,553 909 8,934 34,497 0 1.353 97.1
22 China 4,504 50,502 0 0 0 10,300 4,504 60,802 0 0 92.6
23 Haiti 242 610 46 33 14 105 303 747 0 57 56.5
24 Benin 334 1,221 16 22 73 57 424 1,300 5 38 53.6
25 CentralAfncanRep. 147 803 24 33 25 48 195 884 II 53 55.6

26 Ghana 1,171 2,992 lOS 834 131 384 1,407 4,209 5 77 63.9
27 Pakistan 8,525 17,745 674 1,068 737 4,157 9,936 22,969 0 0 74.8
28 Togo 899 1,143 33 79 113 134 1,045 1.356 8 25 66.8
29 Guinea 1,004 2,401 35 55 71 170 1,110 2,626 20 306 70.4
30 Nicaragu.a 1,661 8,703 49 24 466 1,718 2,176 10,446 6 3,743 89.3
3! Sri Lanka 1,231 5,758 391 401 220 394 1,841 6,553 0 0 60.8
32 Mauritania 718 1,912 62 57 65 330 844 2,299 10 335 77.1
33 Yemen, Rep. 1,453 5,207 48 0 183 1,264 1,684 6,471 I 1,597 83.5
34 Honduras 1.165 2,940 33 34 272 203 1,470 3,177 0 270 83.8
35 Lesotho 57 406 6 18 8 4 71 428 0 7 55.6

36 Indonesia 18,169 59,960 0 166 2,775 13,503 20,944 73,629 0 I 92.3
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 16,477 36,978 411 127 4,027 3,466 20,915 40,571 383 1,739 52.8
38 Zimbabwe 696 2,868 0 0 90 561 786 3,429 0 0 88.1
39 Sudan 4,147 9,717 431 961 585 5,229 5,163 15,907 49 9,620 90.4
40 Zambia 2,227 4.958 447 918 586 1,403 3,261 7,279 6 1,268 86.0
Middle-income economies
I .ower-middle-income

41 Bolivia 2,274 3,675 126 245 300 155 2,700 4,075 0 36 75.8
42 Côted'Ivoire 4,724 15,167 65 372 1,059 3,308 5,848 18,847 0 3,426 92.9
43 Senegal 1,114 2,890 140 327 219 305 1,473 3,522 0 29 69.2
44 Philippines 8.817 25,893 1,044 1,086 7,556 4,919 17,417 31,897 0 101 96.7
45 Papua New Guinea 624 2,566 31 61 64 128 719 2,755 0 2! 90.6
46 Cameroon 2,183 5,254 59 121 271 903 2,513 6,278 2 657 89.3
47 Guatemala 831 2,230 0 64 335 411 1,166 2,704 0 565 90.6
48 Dominican Rep. 1,473 3,554 49 89 480 849 2,002 4,492 7 1,314 92.1
49 Ecuador 4,422 10,094 0 182 1,575 2,192 5,997 12,469 0 3,654 97.6
50 Morocco 8.475 20,332 457 574 778 312 9,7)0 21,219 3 739 92.0

SI Jordan 1,486 7,570 0 95 486 977 1,972 8,641 6 1,134 91.5
52 Tajikistan .. .. .. .. . .. .. ..
53 Peru 6,828 15,298 474 706 2,084 4,705 9,386 20,709 0 7,852 92.6
54 ElSalvador 659 2.070 32 0 220 102 911 2.172 0 16 74.8
55 Congo 1,257 3,989 22 6 246 749 1,526 4,744 3 1,010 86.1
56 Syrian Arab Rep. 2,918 14,932 0 . 0 631 1,882 3,549 16,815 0 1,426 72.1
57 Colombia 4,604 15,617 0 0 2,337 1,752 6,941 17,369 0 167 100.4
58 Paraguay 780 1,799 0 0 174 377 954 2,177 0 532 90.8
59 Uzbekistan .. .. .. .. . . . . .. .. ..
60 Jamaica 1,496 3,779 309 391 98 286 1,904 4,456 0 353 91.2

61 Romania 7,131 334 328 809 2,303 770 9,762 1,913 0 0 99.7
62 Namibia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
63 Tunisia 3,390 7,369 0 258 136 670 3,526 8,296 0 78 90.)
64 Kyrgyzstan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
65 Thailand 5,646 23,336 348 0 2,303 12,492 8,297 35,828 0 0 95.2
66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

278


--- Page 293 ---
Tote.! arrears
Use of 1MF credit on LDOD Ratio ofpresent
Long-term debt (millions of Short-term debt Total external debt (millions of value to nominal
(millions of dollars) dollars) (millions of dollars) (millions of dollars) dollars) value of debt

1980 1991 /980 /991 /980 199/ /980 /991 1980 /99/ /991
67 Azerbaijan . . S - S . -
68 Thrknsenistan . . . - . S - 0 . .
69 Thrkey 15,575 41.135 1,054 0 2,490 9,117 19,120 50,252 0 0 95.4
70 Poland 6,594 44,057 0 853 2,300 7,571 8,894 52,481 300 11,296 101.6
71 Bulgaria 272 11,023 0 414 0 487 272 11,923 0 2,673 97.1
72 CostaRica 2,112 3,620 57 83 575 340 2,744 4,043 0 219 91.7
73 Algeria 17,034 26,557 0 995 2,325 1,084 19,359 28,636 0 0 98.1
74 Panama 2,271 3,939 23 216 680 2,637 2,974 6,791 0 3.265 98.2
75 Armenia . . - . . . S S - .
76 Chile 9,399 14,744 123 958 2,560 2,200 12,081 17,902 0 1 99.9
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 4,508 2,736 0 0 0 8,775 4,508 11,511 0 1,944 100.2
78 Moldova
79 Ukraine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 318 96! 102 0 47 31 467 991 0 17 87.2
81 Czechoslovakia 0 5,845 0 1,313 3,989 2,635 3,989 9,793 0 4 99.3
82 Kazakhstan .. .. .. .. . - .. .. . -
83 Malaysia 5,256 18,753 0 0 1,355 2,692 6,611 21,445 0 0 97.5
Upper-middle-income
84 Botswana 129 536 0 0 4 7 133 543 0 9 83.8
85 South Africa . . .
86 Lithuania - - . . . . S . . . . . . . . .
87 Hungary 6,416 19,221 0 1,259 3,347 2,177 9,764 22,658 0 0 100.3
88 Venezuela 13,795 28,839 0 3,249 15,550 2,284 29,345 34,372 IS 0 99.0
89 Argentina 16,774 47,188 0 2,483 10,383 14,036 27,157 63,707 0 13,818 103.9
90 Uruguay 1,338 3,128 0 58 322 1,003 1,660 4,189 0 0 99.4
91 Brazil 57,500 95,130 0 1,238 13,546 20,147 71,046 116,514 20 10,832 99.9
92 Mexico 41,215 83,891 0 6,766 16,163 11,080 57,378 101,737 0 0 96.9
93 Belams . . . . . . S
94 Russian Federation . . . . . . . . .
95 Latvia . - . . . - . S . . S
96 TrinidadandTobago 713 1,817 0 385 116 130 829 2,332 0 33 97.8
97 Gabon 1,271 2,935 15 121 228 787 1,513 3,842 0 466 95.7
98 Estonia S - . S S - . . .
99 Portugal 7,215 20,170 119 0 2,395 8,398 9,729 28,568 0 0 97.0
100 Oman 436 2,270 0 0 163 427 599 2,697 0 0 96.7
101 Puerto Rico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
102 Korea, Rep. 18,236 29,318 683 0 10,561 11,200 29,480 40,518 0 0 97.6
103 Greece . S .
104 Saudi Arabia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
105 Yugoslavia 15,586 15,872 760 307 2,140 293 18,486 16,471 0 636 102.5
Low- and middle-income
Sub-Saharan Africa
East Asia & Pacific
South Asia
Europe and Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa
Latin America & Caribbean
Severely indebted
High-income economies
OECD members
106 Ireland
107 tlsrael
108 New Zealand
109 Spain
110 tHong Kong
Ill tSingapore
112 United Kingdom
113 Australia
114 Italy
115 Netherlands
116 Belgium
117 Austria
118 France
119 Canada
120 United States
121 Germany
122 Denmark
123 Finland
124 Norway
125 Sweden
126 Japan
127 Switzerland
WorldFuel exporters

279


--- Page 294 ---
Table 22. flow of public and private external capital

Disbursements Repayment ofprincipal Interest payments
(millionsofdollars) (millionsofdollars) (millionsofdollars)
lirng-term public Long-term public Long-term public
and publicly Private and publicly Private and publicly Private
guaranteed non guaranteed guaranteed non guaranteed guaranteed nonguaranteed
1980 /991 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991
Low-income economies
China and India
Other low-income

I Mozambique o 141 0 0 0 23 0 3 0 10 0 0
2 Tanzania 373 257 31 0 26 64 16 0 38 33 7 0
3 Ethiopia 102 260 0 0 17 90 0 0 17 36 0 0
4 Uganda 92 179 0 0 32 68 0 0 4 24 0 0
5 Bhutan 0 10 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 2 0 0
6 Guinea-Bissau 69 29 0 0 3 2 0 0 I 2 0 0
7 Nepal 50 155 0 0 2 30 0 0 2 27 0 0
8 Burundi 39 85 0 0 4 26 0 0 2 12 0 0
9 Chad 6 97 0 0 3 4 0 0 0 5 0 0
10 Madagascar 350 198 0 0 30 48 0 0 26 67 0 0
II Sierra Leone 86 47 0 0 32 I 0 0 8 0 0
12 Bangladesh 657 873 0 0 63 259 0 0 47 153 0 0
13 Lao PDR 38 50 0 0 I 5 0 0 I 3 0 0
14 Malawi 153 170 0 0 33 61 0 0 35 41 0 0
15 Rwanda 27 100 0 0 3 13 0 0 2 7 0 0
16 Mali 95 95 0 0 5 0 0 3 6 0 0
17 BurkinaFaso 65 146 0 0 25 0 0 6 0 0
18 Niger 167 67 113 0 23 98 35 36 16 49 l0
19 India 1,895 7,147 285 317 664 3,403 91 278 502 2,585 30 116
20 Kenya 550 424 87 60 117 320 88 40 130 202 39 45
21 Nigeria 1,187 844 565 0 65 1,069 177 47 440 2.218 91 13
22 China 2,539 9,992 0 0 613 4,323 0 0 318 2,946 0 0
23 Haiti 47 34 0 0 15 6 0 0 5 6 0 0
24 Benin 62 99 0 0 6 16 0 0 3 12 0 0
25 Central African Rep. 25 114 0 0 I 4 0 0 0 5 0 0
26 Ghana 220 440 0 9 77 I0I 0 8 31 60 0 3
27 Pakistan 1,052 1,737 9 19 346 907 7 41 247 565 2 II
28 logo 100 65 0 0 19 19 0 0 19 18 0 0
29 Guinea 121 237 0 0 75 82 0 0 23 39 0 0
30 Nicaragua 266 134 0 0 45 168 0 0 42 218 0 0
31 SriLanka 269 755 2 0 51 162 0 3 33 127 0 2
32 Mauritania 130 57 0 0 17 40 0 0 13 20 0 0
33 Yemen, Rep. 566 163 0 0 25 83 0 0 10 28 0 0
34 Honduras 264 209 81 23 39 126 48 15 58 135 25 4
35 Lesotho 13 50 0 0 3 17 0 0 10 0 0
36 Indonesia 2,551 5,606 695 3,467 940 4,172 693 1,948 824 2,645 358 844
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 2,803 1,799 126 120 368 1,247 46 170 378 580 23 72
38 Zimbabwe 132 379 0 112 40 227 0 33 I0 237 0 15
39 Sudan 711 130 0 0 53 13 0 0 49 10 0 0
40 Zambia 597 336 6 2 181 248 31 0 106 236 10 0
Middle-income economies
Lower-middle-income
41 Bolivia 441 287 16 0 126 114 19 25 164 107 9 12
42 Côte d'Ivoire 1,413 401 262 900 517 226 38 529 353 273 31 228
43 Senegal 327 131 0 9 152 133 4 8 67 89 0 3
44 Philippines 1,382 1,682 472 261 221 1,392 320 112 375 1,395 204 66
45 Papua New Guinea 120 213 15 228 32 159 40 203 30 78 22 55
46 Cameroon 562 425 50 76 82 149 32 86 104 157 IS 18
47 Guatemala 138 80 32 3 15 157 62 3 30 97 30 10
48 Dominican Rep. 415 108 67 0 62 103 74 16 92 77 29 7
49 Ecuador 968 521 315 I 272 474 263 22 288 453 78 4
50 Morocco 1,703 1,276 75 8 565 940 25 8 607 1,083 II 5
SI Joidan 369 611 0 0 103 279 0 0 79 304 0 0
52 lajikistan
53 Peru 1,248 500 60 0 959 454 60 112 547 340 124 19
54 El Salvador 110 275 0 0 17 155 18 5 25 69 II 2
55 Congo 520 32 0 0 34 178 0 0 37 38 0 0
56 Syrian Arab Rep. 1,148 531 0 0 225 496 0 0 77 131 0 0
57 Colombia 1,016 1,643 55 298 250 1,906 13 307 279 1,183 31 99
58 Paraguay 158 130 48 8 44 109 36 7 35 76 9 0
59 Uzbekistan
60 Jamaica 328 432 25 0 91 377 10 114 189 . i
61 Romania 2,797 304 0 0 824 23 0 0 332 6 0 0
62 Namibia
63 Tunisia 558 1,142 53 30 216 764 43 35 212 372 16 l
64 Kyrgyzstan
65 Thailand 1,315 1,453 1,288 3,846 172 1,147 610 1,140 269 709 204 1,069
66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for yeam other than thoue specified.

280


--- Page 295 ---
Disbursements Repayment ofprincipa! Interest payments
(millions of dollars) (millions of dollars) (millions of dollars)
Long-term public Long-term public Long-term public
and publicly Private and publicly Private and publicly Private
guaranteed nonguaranteed guaranteed nonguaranteed guaranteed nonguaranteed
1980 /99! /980 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991 /980 1991 1980 199!
67 Azerbaijan
68 Turkmenistan , , .
69 Turkey 2,400 4,740 75 310 566 3,946 29 630 487 2,659 20 146
70 Poland 5,058 859 0 0 2,054 383 0 0 704 451 0 0
71 Bulgaria 222 674 0 0 5 802 0 0 23 274 0 0
72 Costa Rica 435 329 102 8 76 168 88 9 130 173 41 26
73 Algeria 3,398 6,391 0 0 2,529 7,712 0 0 1,439 1,952 0 0
74 Panama 404 I 0 0 215 73 0 0 252 108 0 0
75 Armenia . . S 0 . . 0
76 Chile 857 703 2,694 943 891 594 571 327 483 2,199 435 292
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 264 1,086 0 0 531 174 0 0 432 25 0 0
78 Moldova . . . . .
79 Ukraine . . . . . . S . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 93 103 4 50 15 55 4 31 20 45 3 5
81 Czechoslovakia 0 1,358 0 0 0 984 0 0 0 329 0 0
82 Kazakhstan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
83 Malaysia 1,015 1,646 441 747 127 1,606 218 296 250 1,119 88 112
Upper-middle-income
84 Botswana 27 68 0 0 6 47 0 0 7 32 0 0
85 SouthAfnca . . . . . .
86 Lithuania , . . . . . . . . . . . .
0 824
87 Hungary 1,552 3,114 0 0 2,333 0 0 636 1,439 0 0
88 Venezuela 2,870 1,527 1,891 173 1,737 607 1,235 173 1,218 1,706 257 400
89 Argentina 2,839 1,641 1,869 0 1,146 2,432 707 0 841 3,017 496 133
90 Uruguay 293 507 63 299 93 468 37 124 105 170 17 16
91 Brazil 8,335 3,674 3,192 628 3,864 3,911 2,970 752 4,202 3,693 2,132 338
92 Mexico 9,131 5,819 2,450 1,771 4,010 3,602 750 1,491 3,880 5,776 700 595
93 Belanis . . . S . . .
94 Russian Federation . . . . S . . . . .
95 Laivia . . . . . . . . . S . . . . . .
96 TrinidadandTobago 363 93 0 0 176 173 0 0 50 143 0 0
97 Gabon 171 70 0 0 279 38 0 0 119 41 0 0
98 Estonia . . . S
99 Portugal 1,950 5,546 149 195 538 3,781 126 109 486 1,296 43 39
100 Oman 98 434 0 1) 179 385 0 0 44 156 0 0
101 Puerto Rico . . . . S . . . . . . . . . . .
102 Korea, Rep. 3,429 4,752 551 2,994 1,490 2,009 64 1,360 1,293 1,195 343 503
103 Greece .
104 Saudi Arabia . . . . . . . S . . . . . .
105 Yugoslavia 1.366 105 3,223 666 368 1,351 2,012 1,039 249 988 829 235
Low- and middle-income
Sub-Saharan AfricaEast Asia & Pacific

South Asia
Europe and Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa
Latin America & Caribbean
Severely indebted
High-income economiesOECD members

106 Ireland
107 flsrael
108 New Zealand
109 Spain
110 tHong Kong
Ill tSingapore
112 United Kingdom
113 Australia
114 Italy
115 Netherlands
116 Belgium
117 Austria
118 France
119 Canada
120 United States
121 Germany
122 Denmark
123 Finland
124 Norway
125 Sweden
126 Japan
127 Switzerland
World
Fuel exporters

281


--- Page 296 ---
Table 23. Aggregate net resource flows and net transfers

Net flows on long-term debt Foreign direct
(millionsofdollars) fficzalgrants investment in the Aggregate net Aggregate net

Public and pub- Private (millions of reporting economy resource flows transfers
licly guaranteed nonguaranteed dollars) (millionsofdollars) (millionsofdollars) (millions ofdollars)
1980 /991 /980 1991 1980 /991 /980 1991 1980 1991 /980 /991
Low-income economiesChina and India

Other low-income

1 Mozambique 0 118 0 -3 76 752 0 23 76 889 76 879
2 Tanzania 348 193 15 0 485 688 0 0 848 880 804 847
3 Ethiopia 84 171 0 0 125 464) 0 0 209 631 192 595
4 Uganda 60 III 0 0 62 253 0 I 122 365 118 341
5 Rhutan 0 5 0 0 2 28 0 0 2 33 2 31
6 Guinea-Bissau 66 28 0 0 37 60 0 0 103 88 102 85
7 Nepal 48 125 0 0 79 160 0 0 127 285 125 259
8 Bumndi 35 59 0 0 39 126 0 I 74 186 72 171
9 Chad 3 93 0 0 22 106 0 0 25 199 25 194
10 Madagascar 319 150 0 0 30 352 0 14 349 516 322 447

11 SierraLeone 54 46 0 0 24 33 -19 0 59 79 46 78
12 Bangladesh 594 614 0 0 1,001 1,070 0 1 1,595 1,685 1,548 1,532
13 Lao PDR 37 45 0 0 16 54 0 0 53 99 52 96
14 Malawi 120 109 0 0 49 219 tO 0 178 328 135 287
IS Rwanda 25 87 0 0 68 181 16 5 109 273 98 261

16 Mali 89 89 0 0 104 209 2 4 195 302 192 278
17 BurkinaFaso 55 121 0 0 88 200 0 0 142 321 128 306
18 Niger 144 -32 79 -36 5! 249 49 0 324 181 248 160
19 India 1,231 3,744 194 39 649 562 0 0 2,073 4,345 1,541 1,643
20 Kenya 433 104 -1 20 121 836 79 43 632 1,003 312 696

21 Nigeria 1,122 -225 388 -47 3 141 -740 712 773 581 -1,357 -1,836
22 China 1,927 5,669 0 0 7 262 0 4,366 1,934 10,298 1,616 7,342
23 Haiti 32 28 0 0 30 142 13 14 75 183 59 169
24 Benin 56 83 0 0 41 147 4 0 101 231 96 218
25 CentralAfricanRep. 24 110 0 0 56 6! 5 -5 85 166 85 161
26 Ghana 143 340 0 1 23 581 16 0 181 922 135 859
27 Pakistan 706 830 2 -22 482 429 63 257 1,254 1,494 1,000 876
28 Togo 82 46 0 0 15 92 42 0 139 139 119 99
29 Guinea 47 155 0 0 25 138 0 0 72 293 49 254
30 Nicaragua 221 -33 0 0 48 730 0 0 269 696 207 478

31 SriLanka 219 593 2 -3 161 200 43 98 425 887 377 737
32 Mauritania 113 17 0 0 61 97 27 0 201 113 165 93
33 Yemen,Rep. 542 80 0 0 335 87 34 0 910 167 900 139
34 Honduras 225 83 33 9 20 475 6 45 283 611 123 40!
35 Lesotho 10 33 0 0 52 48 5 8 66 88 59 -72

36 indonesia 1,611 1,434 2 1,519 109 300 180 1,482 1902 4,735 -2,514 -1,056
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 2,435 552 80 -50 165 3,355 548 253 3,229 4,110 2,813 3,451
38 Zimbabwe 93 152 0 80 127 231 2 0 22! 462 133 210
39 Sudan 658 117 0 0 388 416 0 0 1,046 533 997 523
40 Zambia 416 89 -25 2 71 697 62 0 524 788 324 552
Middle-income economies
Lower-middle-income

41 Bolivia 315 173 -3 -25 48 599 47 52 407 800 214 663
42 Côted'Ivoire 896 175 224 371 27 264 95 46 1,241 856 670 309
43 Senegal 175 -2 -4 1 78 532 15 0 263 531 161 404
44 Philippines 1,161 290 152 149 59 400 -106 544 1,266 1,383 488 -381
45 PapuaNewGuinea 89 54 -25 25 279 280 76 0 418 359 163 227
46 Camemon 480 277 18 -10 29 269 130 0 656 536 422 361
47 Guatemala 123 -77 -30 0 14 51 III 91 217 66 114 -85
48 Dominican Rep. 353 5 -7 -16 14 40 93 145 454 174 267 89
49 Ecuador 696 46 52 -21 7 56 70 85 825 166 349 -419
50 Morocco 1,138 336 50 0 75 553 89 320 1,353 1,209 685 26

51 Jordan 266 332 0 0 1,127 407 34 -12 1,427 727 1,348 422
52 Tajikistan .. .. . - .. .. .. . . .. .. .. ..
53 Peru 289 46 0 -112 31 197 27 -7 347 124 -580 -269
54 ElSalvador 92 120 -18 -5 31 114 6 25 III 255 34 147
55 Congo 486 -147 0 0 20 38 40 0 546 -109 503 -147

56 SyrianArabRep. 924 35 0 0 1,651 109 0 0 2,574 144 2,497 13
57 Colombia 766 -263 42 -9 8 51 157 420 974 199 553 -2,030
58 Paraguay 114 21 13 I 10 22 32 80 168 124 70 47
59 Uzbekistan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
60 Jamaica 236 55 15 -6 13 248 28 127 292 424 57 59

61 Romania 1,973 281 0 0 . . 0 40 1,973 321 1,641 315
62 Namibia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . S -
63 Tunisia 342 378 10 -5 26 143 235 150 612 667 232 16
64 Kyrgyzstan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
65 Thailand 1,143 306 678 2,706 75 220 190 2,014 2,087 5,245 1,576 3,412
66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

282


--- Page 297 ---
Net flows on long-term debt Foreign direct
(millions of dollars) Official grants investment in the Aggregate net Aggregate net
Public wzd pub- Private (millions of reporting economy resource flows transfers
licly guaranteed nonguaranteed dollars) (millions of dollars) (millions of dollars) (millions of dollars)
1980 199! 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991 /980 1991 1980 1991
67 Azerbaijan
68 Turkmenistan
69 Thrkey 1,834 794 46 -319 185 1,147 18 810 2,083 2,432 1,545 -541
70 Poland 3,005 476 0 0 10 291 3,015 767 2,311 266
71 Bulgaria 217 -128 0 0 . . 0 0 217 -128 193 -402
72 Costa Rica 359 160 14 0 0 83 53 142 425 385 235 140
73 Algeria 869 -1,321 0 0 77 79 349 0 1,295 -1.242 -830 -3,194
74 Panama 189 -73 0 0 6 89 -47 -62 149 -45 -174 -193
75 Armenia
76 Chile -34 109 2,123 616 9 97 213 576 2,312 1,398 1,307 -1,738
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. -267 912 0 0 I 70 0 0 -265 982 -1,095 958
78 Moldova
79 Ukraine
80 Mauritius ' Ô 19 13 16 I 19 93 101 69 29
81 Czechoslovakia 0 374 0 0 0 600 0 974 0 3
82 Kazakhstan
83 Malaysia 889 41 223 451 6 57 934 3,455 2,052 4,003 524 837
Upper-middle-income
84 Botswana 21 21 0 0 51 62 112 0 184 83 69 51
85 South Africa
86 Lithuania
87 Hungary 728 781 0 0 . . : 0 1,462 728 2,243 92 760
88 Venezuela 1,133 920 656 0 0 5 55 1,914 1,844 2,839 47 505
89 Argentina 1,693 -791 1,162 0 2 40 678 2,439 3,535 1,688 1,593 -2,269
90 Uruguay 200 39 26 175 1 10 290 0 516 224 395 38
91 Brazil 4,472 -237 222 -124 14 46 1,911 1,600 6,618 1,286 -670 -4,545
92 Mexico 5,121 2,217 1,700 280 14 62 2,156 4,762 8,991 7,321 3,043 -556
93 Belarus
94 Russian Federation
95 Latvia
96 Trinidad and Tobago 187 -ó Ô 185 169 372 93 -I57 -286
97 Gabon -109 32 0 35 32 125 -73 192 -465 -32
98 Estonia
99 Portugal 1,411 1,765 23 86 28 15 157 2,021 1,620 3,887 1,074 2,488
100 Oman -81 49 0 0 157 3 98 0 174 51 -156 -105
101 Puerto Rico
102 Korea, Rep. 1,90 2,743 487 1,633 8 6 6 1,116 2,440 5,498 740 3,504
103 Greece
104 Saudi Arabia
105 Yugoslavia 998 -1,247 1,211 -373 0 0 2,208 -1,620 1,131 -2,843
Low- and middle-incomeSub-Saharan Africa

East Asia & Pacific
South Asia
Europe and Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa
Latin America & Caribbean
Severely indebted
High-income economies
OECD members
106 Ireland
107 jIsrael
108 New Zealand
109 Spain
110 tHong Kong
Ill tSingapore
112 United Kingdom
113 Australia
114 Italy
115 Netherlands
116 Belgium
117 Austria
118 France
119 Canada
120 United States
121 Germany
122 Denmark
123 Finland
124 Norway
125 Sweden
126 Japan
127 Switzerland
WorldFuel exporters

283


--- Page 298 ---
Table 24. Total external debt ratios

Total external debt as a percentage of Total debt service as Interest payments Concessional debt Multilateral debt
a percentage of as a percentage of as a percentage as a percentage
Exports ofgoods exportsofgoods exports of goods of total oftotal
and services GNP and services and services external debt external debt
1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 1991
Low-income economies 105.5 w 225.7 w 16.6 w 44.6 w 10.1 w 21.0 w 5.0 w 9.4 w 45.9 w 38.2 w 15.9 w 24.1 wChina and India 69.1 w 140.7 w 5.3 w 21.5 w 6.4 w 16.9 w 2.6 w 7.4 w 61.7 w 30.6 w 24.2 w 23.8 w
Other low-income 120.2 w 307.7 w 33.5 w 85.7 w 11.6 w 25.0 w 6.0 w 11.3 w 42.2 w 41.4 w 14.0 w 24.2 w

I Mozambique 0.0 1,117.1 0.0 426.0 0.0 10.6 0.0 4.3 0.0 59.7 0.0 12.0
2 Tanzania 321.7 1,207.8 48.3 250.8 19.6 24.6 10.0 7.6 55.3 60.0 21.4 30.5
3 Ethiopia 131.4 464.7 l9.5 53.4 7.3 18.6 4.5 5.8 70.6 81.5 42.2 39.1
4 Uganda 210.3 1,429.4 55.1 109.2 17.4 70.0 3.7 18.8 26.9 58.7 12.4 51.2
5 Bhutan 95.4 0.0 38.8 7.2 2.4 0.0 80.1 0.0 57.3
6 Guinea-Bissau . . . 128.0 323.7 . . . 64.3 67.9 2l.3 42.9
7 Nepal 85.5 370.0 10.4 53.5 3.2 13.6 2.1 6.2 75.7 90.4 62.0 78.7
8 Burundi 180.1 758.8 18.2 83.8 9.5 31.5 4.8 10.9 62.6 88.2 35.7 74.9
9 Chad 320.2 251.1 31.6 47.0 8.3 4.5 0.7 2.7 50.9 80.1 32.6 63.9
10 Madagascar 235.7 744.6 30.6 148.3 17.1 32.0 10.9 15.6 39.3 57.6 14.9 37.4
II Sierra Leone 157.7 . . 40.7 167.5 23.2 . . 5.7 . . 32.8 31.0 14.2 14.4
12 Bangladesh 345.3 443.7 31.3 56.0 23.2 19.9 6.4 6.4 82.4 91.0 30.3 53.6
13 LeoPDR . . 996.2 . . 109.8 . . 7.6 . . 2.9 92.1 97.3 7.1 28.6
14 Malawi 260.8 318.8 72.1 78.5 27.7 25.0 16.7 9.4 33.8 76.8 26.7 71.5
15 Rwanda 103.4 591.8 16.3 53.7 4.2 17.6 2.8 8.6 74.4 91.9 47.8 73.9
16 Mali 227.3 442.7 45.4 104.8 5.1 4.6 2.3 2.1 84.5 91.9 23.7 38.0
17 Burkina Faso 88.0 188.8 22.3 34.9 5.9 9.1 3.1 4.2 66.9 77.5 42.9 67.0
18 Niger 132.8 466.8 34.5 72.9 21.7 50.4 12.9 9.3 18.0 49.9 16.5 43.7
19 India 136.2 295.3 11.9 29.3 9.3 30.7 4.2 13.6 75.1 41.6 29.5 33.5
20 Kenya 167.3 318.4 49.0 89.6 21.8 32.7 11.4 14.5 20.8 40.6 18.3 38.2
21 Nigeria 32.2 257.1 10.1 108.8 4.2 25.2 3.3 16.8 6.1 3.1 6.4 11.6
22 China 21.2 87.1 1.5 16.4 4.4 12.1 l.5 5.3 0.5 17.6 0.0 12.4
23 Haiti 72.9 186.5 20.9 28.8 6.2 6.6 1.8 4.0 70.7 75.1 43.8 67.5
24 Benin 133.1 262.2 30.2 70.1 6.3 6.2 4.5 3.0 39.2 78.2 24.5 45.7
25 Central African Rep. 94.7 671.9 24.3 71.5 4.9 11.4 1.6 5.9 30.1 78.1 27.4 57.8
26 Ghana 116.0 384.5 31.8 66.9 13.1 26.9 4.4 9.9 57.9 56.9 19.8 49.2
27 Pakistan 208.8 244.9 42.4 50.1 17.9 21.1 7.6 10.0 73.1 54.9 15.4 35.0
28 Togo 180.1 187.2 95.3 85.0 9.0 7.3 5.8 3.5 24.4 57.5 11.4 44.9
29 Guinea 200.5 351.0 94.8 19.8 17.9 6.0 5.8 59.7 70.3 11.7 31.5
30 Nicaragua 423.4 2,917.8 108.5 153.5 22.3 109.3 13.4 62.4 21.5 28.7 19.4 9.2
31 SriLanka 123.4 211.0 46.1 72.6 12.0 13.9 5.7 5.7 56.2 73.3 11.7 31.8
32 Mauritania 306.6 458.2 125.7 214.7 17.3 16.8 7.9 6.2 60.5 68.1 14.9 26.9
33 Yemen, Rep. 104.7 292.5 . . 88.1 4.5 7.3 2.3 3.5 83.9 73.8 14.9 16.4
34 Honduras 152.0 330.8 60.5 113.8 21.4 30.6 12.4 15.8 23.4 37.2 31.1 50.9
35 Lesotho 19.5 73.2 11.2 39.2 1.5 4.6 0.6 1.8 61.0 77.0 55.3 72.9
36 Indonesia 94.2 223.2 28.0 66.4 13.9 32.7 6.5 13.2 36.4 28.3 8.8 21.7
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 227.0 . 280.0 97.5 133.1 14.7 16.7 9.1 6.3 46.1 37.6 12.6 8.2
38 Zimbabwe 45.4 164.9 14.9 57.0 3.8 27.2 1.5 14.4 2.3 29.1 0.4 21.2
39 Sudan 499.4 3,465.6 77.2 . . 25.5 . . 12.8 . . 34.4 29.0 12.3 11.7
40 Za,nbia 200.7 624.8 90.7 . . 25.3 50.3 8.7 26.1 25.4 35.9 12.2 20.9
Middle-income economies 132.5 w 159.8 w 31.9 w 41.2 w 23.9 w 20.3 w 12.2 w 9.3 w 8.1 w 9.9 w 6.4 w 13.0 w
Lower-middle-income 100.2 w 157.6 w 28.7 w 53.2 w 16.7 w 19.5 w 8.0 w 8.3 w 14.8 w 16.5 w 8.6 w 14.9 w
41 Bolivia 258.2 432.4 93.3 85.3 35.0 34.0 21.1 14.7 24.7 42.1 16.6 42.2
42 Côte d'Ivoire 160.7 566.1 58.8 222.6 28.3 43.4 13.0 17.6 7.6 12.5 9.0 15.6
43 Senegal 162.7 224.6 50.5 63.1 28.7 19.9 10.5 7.9 27.9 55.0 17.8 40.1
44 Philippines 212.3 215.6 53.8 70.2 26.6 23.2 18.2 11.0 6.7 25.9 7.5 20.9
45 Papua New Guinea 66.0 160.7 28.9 84.6 13.8 29.6 6.6 8.5 12.2 25.5 21.2 31.6
46 Camemon 136.7 252.7 36.8 57.5 15.2 18.7 8.1 8.8 31.4 23.9 16.8 22.6
47 Guatemala 63.6 142.9 14.9 29.5 7.9 15.3 3.7 6.7 21.6 25.4 30.0 35.2
48 Dominican Rep. 133.8 193.1 31.2 65.7 25.3 11.6 12.0 4.6 20.5 27.5 10.2 19.6
49 Ecuador 201.6 362.7 53.8 114.5 33.9 32.2 15.9 14.7 5.0 8.1 5.4 17.9
50 Morocco 224.5 257.5 53.3 80.0 32.7 27.8 17.0 14.2 37.6 25.9 7.4 23.9
51 Jonlan 79.0 283.4 . . 226.9 8.4 20.9 4.3 11.8 41.5 34.1 8.0 10.8
52 Tajikistan .. .. .. . .. .. .. . . .. ..
53 Peru 194.2 483.6 47.6 44.3 44.5 27.7 19.9 13.4 15.1 11.5 5.5 9.2
54 El Salvador 71.1 155.4 26.2 37.4 7.5 17.2 4.7 5.8 25.9 59.3 28.3 38.7
55 Congo 148.1 386.3 99.0 181.7 10.6 21.3 6.6 6.4 26.4 36.4 7.7 12.1
56 SyrianArabRep. 106.2 . . 27.1 103.8 11.4 . . 4.7 . . 63.5 78.4 8.8 6.2
57 Colombia 117.1 167.7 20.9 43.5 16.0 35.2 11.6 13.8 16.3 5.6 19.5 35.5
58 Paraguay 121.9 125.7 20.7 35.0 18.6 11.9 8.5 5.3 31.9 30.7 20.2 33.2
59 Uzbekistan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
60 Jamaica 129.3 186.3 78.3 134.9 19.0 29.4 10.8 9.7 20.9 27.4 15.0 26.8
61 Romania 80.3 39.3 . 6.9 12.6 2.0 4.9 1.5 0.0 l.0 8.3 1.4
62 Namibia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
63 Tunisia 96.0 137.2 41.6 66.2 14.8 22.7 6.9 7.3 39.9 35.3 12.3 32.7
64 Kyrgyzstan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
65 Thailand 96.8 94.9 26.0 39.0 18.9 13.1 9.5 7.0 10.9 13.2 12.0 9.9
66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

284


--- Page 299 ---
Total external debt as ofa percentage of Total debt service asInterest paymentsConcessional debtMultilateral debt
a percentage of as a percentage as a percentage as a percentage
bports of goods exports of goods exports ofgoods of total of total
and services GNP and services and services external debt external debt
1980 199) 1980 1991 1980 199! 1980 1991 1980 1991 1980 199!
67 Azerbaijan
68 Turkmenistan
69 Turkey 332.9 194.7 34.3 48.1 28.0 30.5 14.9 12.8 23.0 15.6 I 20.2
70 Poland 54.9 281.4 16.3 68.5 17.9 5.4 5.2 3.3 9.1 2.9 0.0 1.7
71 Bulgaria 2.9 237.9 1.4 151.7 0.3 22.1 0.2 6.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.6
72 Costa Rica 225.2 177.8 59.7 74.9 29.1 18.4 14.6 10.3 9.5 22.8 16.4 29.4
73 Algeria 129.9 214.8 47.0 70.4 27.4 73.7 10.4 15.8 6.5 3.4 1.5 9.5
74 Panama 38.4 106.4 87.5 130.1 6.3 3.9 3.3 1.9 9.0 6.7 11.0 14.1
75 Armenia
76 Chile 192.5 153.5 45.5 60.7 43.1 33.9 19.0 24.3 . 1 2'i 24.1
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 32.0 57.3 4.9 11.5 6.8 3.9 3.1 3.0 7.4 0.8 13.8 0.7
78 Moldova
79 Ukraine
80 Mauritius 80.7 53.2 41.6 37.0 9.1 8.8 5.9 3.0 15.6 39.3 16.6 29.7
81 Czechoslovakia 28.0 68.9 9.8 29.5 3.9 11.6 3.9 4.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.8
82 Kazakhstan
83 Malaysia 44.6 53.7 28.0 47.6 6.3 8.3 4.0 3.6 10.1 12.1 11.3 9.1
Upper-middle-income 173.1 w 162.2 w 34.4 w 33.2 w 33.0 w 21.1 w 17.5 w 10.4 w 3.5 w 2.9 w 4.8 w 11.1 w
84 Botswana 17.8 23.0 14.8 15.7 1.9 3.4 1.1 1.4 46.6 40.3 63.3 71.4
85 South Africa
86 Lithuania
87 Hungary 1808 448 770 325 132 56 04 00 148
88 Venezuela 132.0 187.0 42.1 65.3 27.2 18.7 13.8 13.9 0.4 0.2 0.7 6.4
89 Argentina 242.4 433.0 48.4 49.2 37.3 48.4 20.8 25.1 1.8 0.9 4.0 8.5
90 Uruguay 104.1 175.3 17.0 45.3 18.8 38.2 10.6 11.7 5.2 1.7 11.0 20.5
91 Brazil 305.2 324.9 31.3 28.8 63.1 30.0 33.8 15.4 2.5 2.5 4.4 9.5
92 Mexico 259.2 224.1 30.5 36.9 49.5 30.9 27.4 17.3 0.9 1.0 5.6 15.2
93 Belams
94 Russian Federation
95 Latvia
96 Trinidad and Tobago 24.6 105.4 14.0 48.2 6.8 16.2 1.6 8.4 4.7 2.4 8.6 6.7
97 Gabon 62.2 152.5 39.2 88.1 17.7 6.5 6.3 4.0 8.2 21.4 2.6 9.1
98 Estonia
99 Portugal 99.5 103.2 40.5 43.9 18.3 21.1 10.5 7.1 4.4 3.3 5.5 9.8
100 Oman 15.4 11.2 29.4 6.4 1.8 . . 43.6 10.3 5.8 4.9
101 Puerto Rico
102 Korea,Rep. 130.6 47.6 48.7 14.4 19.7 7.1 12.7 3.1 Il. .o
103 Greece
104 Saudi Arabia
105 Yugoslavia 103.1 87.8 25.6 20.8 20.4 7.2 6.9 7.9 4.3 7.6 16.9
Low- and middle-income 124.9 w 176.9 w 26.2 w 42.3 w 20.0 w 20.5 w 10.2 w 9.3 w 16.9 w 19.3 wSub-Saharan Africa 96.6 w 329.4 w 28.6 w 107.9 w 10.9 w 20.8 w 5.7 w 10.5 w 26.9 w 33.8 w8.6 w 16.7 w
East Asia & Pacific 89.8 w 96.2 w 16.9 w 28.2 w 13.5 w 13.3 w 7.7 w 5.9 w 16.4 w 21.2 w 13.4 w 22.7 w
South Asia 160.4w 287.1 w 17.0 w 35.6w 11.9w 26.0 w 5.1 w 11.5 w 74,4w 52.4w 25.0 w 36.7w8.7 w 15.4 w
Europe and Central Asia 81.2 w 152.2 w 24.3 w 51.4w 14.0w 20.0w 6.0 w 7.7 w 9.6w 5.8w 6.1 w 10.8 w
Middle East & N. Africa 114.4w 185.8w 31.0w 58.8w 16.1 w 25.9 w 7.3 w 8.4w 31.8w 31.4w 8.3w 11.7w
Latin America & Caribbean 195.5 w 256.0 w 35.1 w 41.3 w 37.1 w 29.2 w 19.6 w 15.8 w 4.5 w 5.4 w 5.8 w 14.2 w
Severely indebted 176.6 w 285.9 w 34.0 w 46.4 w 34.0 w 30.8 w 17.1 w 14.1 w 6.7 w 8.3 w 5.0 w 10.9 w
High-income economies
OECD members
106 Ireland
107 flsrael
108 New Zealand
109 Spain
110 tHong Kong
III tSingapore
112 United Kingdom
113 Australia
114 Italy
115 Netherlands
116 Belgium
117 Austria
118 France
119 Canada
120 United States
121 Germany
122 Denmark
123 Finland
124 Norway
125 Sweden
126 Japan
127 Switzerland
World
Fuel exporters

285


--- Page 300 ---
Table 25. Terms of external public borrowing

Average Average Public loans with variable
Commitments interest rate Average maturirv grace period interest rates, as a
(millions ofdollars) (percent) (rears) (years) percentageofpublic debt

1980 1991 1980 199) /980 1991 1980 /991 1980 1991
Low-income economies 30,186 1 37,643 1 6.3 w 5.3 w 23 w 22 w 6 w 6 w 16.6 w 22.0 w
China and India 8,728 t 17,985t 7.6 w 6.1 w 24 w 18 w 6 w 5 w 14.8 w 26.3 w
Other low-income 21,457 1 19,657 1 5.8 w 4.6 w 23 w 25 w 6 w 7 w 17.0 w 20.2 w

I Mozambique 479 80 5.2 1.4 IS 34 4 9 0.0 3.7
2 Tanzania 710 246 4.1 1.9 23 42 8 12 4.4 5.5
3 Ethiopia 175 100 3.7 3.5 18 20 4 7 1.5 2.9
4 Uganda 209 437 4.6 2.2 25 37 6 9 1.3 1.3
5 Bhutan 7 7 1.0 1.0 50 39 10 10 0.0 0.0

6 Guinea-Bissau 38 16 2.4 0.7 18 39 4 10 1.6 0.2
7 Nepal 92 68 0.8 1.0 46 38 10 10 0.0 0.0
8 Burundi 102 102 1.3 1.2 42 40 9 10 0.0 0.0
9 Chad 0 73 0.0 0.7 0 50 0 10 0.2 0.0
10 Madagascar 445 53 5.6 0.7 II 40 5 10 8.3 6.1
II SierraLeone 70 46 5.2 0.7 26 48 7 10 0.0 1.1
12 Bangladesh 1,034 952 1.7 1.0 36 38 9 10 0.1 0.0
13 Lao PDR 94 147 0.2 0.8 40 40 31 10 0.0 0.0
14 Malawi 130 187 6.0 0.7 24 41 6 10 23.2 3.4
IS Rwanda 48 181 1.5 0.8 39 42 9 II 0.0 0.0

16 Mali 145 152 2.2 0.8 23 42 5 10 0.0 0.3
17 BurkinaFaso 115 167 4.3 1.0 21 37 6 10 4.3 0.0
18 Niger 341 48 7.4 2.7 18 30 5 10 56.4 16.5
19 India 4,902 8,538 5.4 5.8 34 20 7 6 4.2 21.0
20 Kenya 560 476 3.9 2.4 30 35 8 9 27.0 20.2

21 Nigeria 1,904 1,362 10.5 6.1 II 22 4 6 74.4 31.8
22 China 3,826 9,447 10.4 6.4 II 16 3 4 58.8 33.1
23 Haiti 51 52 5.5 1.3 20 39 6 10 3.1 0.6
24 Benin 448 145 8.3 1.1 12 36 4 9 0.4 2.1
25 Central African Rep. 38 118 0.6 2.9 13 32 4 8 1.9 0.1
26 Ghana 170 333 1.4 2.6 44 33 10 8 0.9 2.6
27 Pakistan 1,115 1,558 4.4 6.6 30 19 7 5 1.5 14.4
28 Togo 97 14 4.0 0.8 24 40 7 10 12.0 3.3
29 Guinea 269 100 4.6 2.6 19 24 6 5 0.3 7.2
30 Nicaragua 424 244 3.9 1.8 25 39 7 10 47.9 25.9

31 Sri Lanka 752 948 3.9 2.2 30 34 8 9 6.9 5.6
32 Mauritania 215 0 3.6 0.0 21 0 8 0 2.4 5.6
33 Yemen, Rep. 553 128 2.7 0.9 27 39 6 10 0.0 1.5
34 Honduras 495 254 6.8 3.1 24 27 7 8 34.3 21.7
35 Lesotho 59 176 5.9 5.6 24 25 6 7 3.5 0.0
36 Indonesia 4,277 7,840 8.1 6.1 19 20 6 6 30.7 43.1
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 2,558 1,375 5.0 5.2 28 23 9 7 4.5 11.5
38 Zimbabwe 171 953 7.1 6.0 15 14 6 4 0.4 26.8
39 Sudan 905 16 6.1 0.7 18 40 5 10 10.6 19.6
40 Zambia 645 324 6.7 1.1 19 39 4 10 12.6 12.0
Middle-income economies 67,406 1 65,111 I 10.7 w 7.2 w 12 w 14 w 4 w 4 w 54.9 w 50.6 wLower-middle-income 33,634, 34,445 I 9.5 w 6.8 w 14 w 15 w 5 w 5 w 38.8 w 45.3 w

41 Bolivia 370 408 8.4 5.1 15 25 5 6 31.6 24.2
42 Côted'Ivoire 1,685 362 11.4 6.0 10 23 4 6 42.4 65.7
43 Senegal 470 295 5.9 3.7 20 29 6 7 12.7 4.4
44 Philippines 2,143 2,751 9.9 4.9 17 24 5 7 49.9 41.7
45 Papua New Guinea 184 26! 11.2 4.5 18 24 5 7 43.5 52.7
46 Cameroon 164 353 6.9 6.2 24 18 6 5 22.9 18.6
47 Guatemala 247 35 7.9 2.3 15 32 4 3 35.6 16.8
48 Dominican Rep. 519 166 8.9 4.7 12 20 4 7 47.2 31.5
49 Ecuador 1,148 547 10.7 7.6 14 16 4 4 62.5 61.0
50 Morocco 1,686 1,834 8.0 6.5 15 19 5 6 31.0 52.5

51 Jordan 768 505 7.3 1.7 15 29 4 9 13.4 28.2
52 Tajikistan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
53 Peru 1,614 328 9.4 3.1 12 30 3 10 31.2 27.8
54 El Salvador 225 379 4.2 7.4 28 17 8 5 27.4 14.1
55 Congo 966 0 7.7 0.0 II 0 3 0 6.6 27.3
56 SyrianArabRep. 1,168 401 1.3 6.0 24 27 5 5 0.0 0.0
57 Colombia 1,566 2,323 12.9 7.3 15 12 4 6 40.8 50.7
58 Paraguay 99 0 7.0 0.0 24 0 7 0 27.3 16.8
59 Uzbekistan .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
60 Jamaica 225 444 7.6 7.2 14 19 5 4 23.0 25.7

61 Romania 1,886 1,435 14.1 6.2 8 10 4 5 59.2 5.0
62 Namibia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
63 Tunisia 777 1,366 6.7 6.7 18 16 5 5 20.0 23.4
64 Kyrgyzstan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
65 Thailand 1,877 1,156 9.5 5.0 17 19 5 5 51.4 56.6
66 Georgia

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

286


--- Page 301 ---
Average Average Public loans with variable
Commitments interest rate Average ntoJuriiy grace period interest rates, as a
(millionsofdollars) (percent) (years) (years) percentage ofpublic debt
/980 1991 1980 1991 1980 /991 1980 1991 1980 /991
67 Azetbaijan . . .
68 Thrkmenistan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
69 Turkey 2.925 3.880 8.3 7.9 16 13 5 6 26.5 35.5
70 Poland 1,715 1,637 9.3 7.9 II 14 4 4 37.8 67.7
7! Bulgaria 1.578 269 13.9 7.7 9 17 6 5 76.7 73.0
72 CostaRica 62! 179 11.2 7.1 13 6 5 3 57.0 32.)
73 Algeria 3,538 8,429 8.1 7.4 12 8 4 2 25.0 41.6
74 Panama 534 0 11.3 0.0 II 0 5 0 52.7 61.3
75 Armenia . . . . . . . . . . . . .0
76 Chile 835 1.223 13.9 7.0 8 IS 4 4 75.6 76.6
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 0 759 0.0 6.1 0 21 0 2 37.8 84.7
78 Moldova . . . . . . .
79 Ukraine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 121 107 10.4 6.) 14 17 4 7 47.0 32.8
81 Czechoslovakia 8 1.423 8.2 8.3 12 8 4 4 0.0 33.3
82 Kazakhstan .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
83 Malaysia 1.423 868 11.2 7.4 14 13 5 7 50.7 52.2
Upper-middle-income 33,772/ 30,666/ 11.9 w 7.7 w II w 14 w 4 w 4 w 67.0 w 56.3 w
84 Botswana 69 28 6.0 0.5 18 48 4 10 0.0 14.5
85 South Afnca
86 Lithuania . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
87 Hungarya 1,225 2,627 9.8 8.5 13 9 3 6 39.8 56.4
88 Venezuela 2,769 1,055 12.1 8.4 8 IS 3 5 81.4 62.7
89 Argentina 3,023 2.374 13.8 8.0 9 20 4 5 74.0 58.3
90 Uruguay 347 447 10.1 7.9 14 14 6 3 35.4 60.!
9! Brazil 9,638 3,975 12.5 7.6 10 II 4 4 72.2 71.8
92 Mexico 7,632 7,279 11.3 8.2 10 13 4 4 75.9 45.9
93 Belarus .
94 Russian Federation . . . . . . . . . . . . .
95 Latvia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
96 TrinidadandTobago 21) 283 10.4 7.7 9 20 4 5 31.9 51.7
97 Gabon 196 169 11.2 5.4 II 16 3 5 39.3 10.2
98 Estonia . . . . . . . . . . .
99 Portugal 2,015 6,531 10.9 7.0 10 19 3 2 30.6 27.0
100 Oman 454 362 7.9 5.8 9 7 3 5 0.0 59.7
101 Puerto Rico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
102 Korea, Rep. 4,928 4.910 11.3 7.7 15 II 4 4 36.4 41.8
103 Greece . . . . . . .
104 SaudiArabia
105 Yugoslavia 1,187 595 15.1 8.0 14 77.6 75.!' '
Low- and middle-income 97,592 / 102,753 / 9.4 w 6.5 w 16 w 17w Sw 5w 45.0 w 40.7 wSub-Saharan Africa 13,271 / 7,548 1 7.1 w 3.8 w 17w 28 w Sw 7w 23.7 w 21.2 w
East Asia & Pacific 19,468 / 27,414 1 9.8 w 6.3 w 16w 17w 5w 5w 40.0 w 41.6 w
South Asia 7,925 / 12,074 1 4.6 w 5.2 w 33 w 22 w 7w 7w 3.) w 16.1 w
Europe and Central Asia 12,542 1 18,397 1 11.2 w 7.6 w 11 w 14 w 4w 4w 47,4 w 52.4 w
Middle East & N. Africa 11,616/ 15,229 1 6.3 w 6.7 w 19w 14 w Sw 4w 18.2 w 27.0 w
Latin America & Caribbean 32,770 1 22,092 1 11.6 w 7.5 w 11 w 15 w 4w 5w 68.0 w 55.1 w
Severely indebted 37,501 1 28,948 / 10.7 w 7.4 w 11 w 13 w 4w 4w 59.4w 53.7w
High-income economiesOECD members

106 Ireland
107 (Israel
108 New Zealand
109 Spain
110 tHong Kong
Ill tSingapore
112 United Kingdom
113 Australia
114 Italy
115 Netherlands
116 Belgium
Ill Austria
1)8 France
119 Canada
120 United States
121 Germany
122 Denmark
123 Finland
124 Norway
125 Sweden
126 Japan
127 Switzerland
WorldFuel exporters

a. Includes debt in convertible currencies only.

287


--- Page 302 ---
Table 26. Population growth and projections

Average annual growth ofpopulation Hothetical size Age structure ofpopulation (percent)
(percent) Population (millions) ofstationary 0-14 sears
population - 15-64 sears
1970-80 1980-9! I99._2(x)oa ii 20O0 2025a 1991 2025a 1991 2025a(millions)
Low-income economies 2.2 w 2.0w 1.8 w 3,1271 3,686! 5,1841 35.4w 26.8w 60.6 w 65.6 wChina and India 2.0 w 1.7 w 1.5 w 2,0161 2,307 t 2,9341 31.1 w 22.4 w 63.6 w 67.6 w
Other low-income 2.6w 2.6w 2.4w 1,111 t 1,379 t 2,2501 43.1 w 32.4 w 55.2 w 63.0 w

I Mozambique 2.6 2.6 2.9 16 21 43 113 44.5 42.2 52.1 55.0
2 Tanzania 3.0 3.0 3.0 25 33 59 116 46.7 36.4 50.5 60.9
3 Ethiopia 2.7 3.1 2.7 53 67 130 303 45.9 41.2 51.1 56.3
4 Uganda 2.7 2.5 3.3 17 23 48 137 48.7 45.1 48.6 53.4
5 Bhutan 1.8 2.1 2.4 I 2 3 6 40.6 34.3 55.8 61.7
6 Guinea-Bissau 4.7 1.9 2.0 I I 2 4 43.2 38.6 53.5 59.2
7 Nepal 2.6 2.6 2.5 19 24 38 65 43.4 30.8 53.7 64.7
8 Bunindi 1.6 2.9 2.9 6 7 14 33 45.6 40.8 50.7 56.6
9 Chad 2.1 2.4 2.6 6 7 14 29 42.2 39.0 53.4 57.4
10 Madagascar 2.6 3.0 2.8 12 15 26 49 45.1 33.9 52.5 62.5
II Sierra Leone 2.1 2.4 2.6 4 5 10 23 43.5 40.5 52.6 56.4
12 Bangladesh 2.7 2.2 1.9 III 131 180 268 42.3 26.2 56.8 69.0
13 Lao PDR 1.6 2.7 2.9 4 6 10 20 44.5 37.1 51.7 59.3
14 Malawi 3.1 3.3 3.1 9 12 24 73 46.9 45.0 49.7 52.8
IS Rwanda 3.4 3.0 2.3 7 9 17 37 48.9 40.8 50.6 57.2
16 Mali 2.1 2.6 3.1 9 II 24 59 46.8 41.0 49.8 56.5
17 BurkinaFaso 2.1 2.6 3.0 9 12 23 50 45.7 38.6 50.9 58.8
18 Niger 2.9 3.3 3.5 8 II 24 76 47.8 45.6 49.1 52.2
19 India 2.3 2.1 1.8 866 1,017 1,365 1,886 35.8 23.9 60.2 68.1
20 Kenya 3.8 3.8 3.5 25 34 73 192 48.8 41.0 49.4 56.3

21 Nigeria 2.9 3.0 2.8 99 128 217 382 46.5 31.9 52.3 63.9
22 China 1.8 1.5 1.3 1,150 1,290 1,569 1,890 27.0 21.2 66.4 67.1
23 Haiti 1.7 1.9 1.7 7 8 10 17 39.8 29.1 56.8 65.8
24 Benin 2.7 3.2 2.9 5 6 II 20 47.5 34.9 50.8 62.0
25 CentralAfricanRep. 2.2 2.7 2.5 3 4 7 18 42.3 41.4 53.5 56.3
26 Ghana 2.2 3.2 3.2 15 20 36 69 46.8 34.6 50.5 62.0
27 Pakistan 3.1 3.1 2.8 116 148 244 402 44.0 29.6 53.5 65.5
28 Togo 2.6 3.4 3.1 4 5 9 19 45.4 36.6 51.1 60.0
29 Guinea 1.4 2.6 2.9 6 8 14 33 46.7 40.6 50.7 56.8
30 Nicaragua 3.1 2.7 3.1 4 5 8 14 47.7 28.7 50.6 66.4

31 Sri Lanka 1.7 1.4 1.1 17 19 24 29 31.7 21.3 64.2 66.1
32 Mauritania 2.4 2.4 2.9 2 3 5 14 44.8 42.6 50.8 54.9
33 Yemen, Rep. 2.7 3.8 3.7 13 17 37 86 49.3 40.2 49.7 57.5
34 Honduras 3.4 3.3 2.9 5 7 II 18 39.8 28.1 56.8 66.9
35 Lesotho 2.3 2.8 2.4 2 2 3 6 41.9 29.0 55.0 65.7
36 Indonesia 2.4 1.8 1.4 181 206 265 354 35.8 23.6 60.2 68.4
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 2.1 2.5 2.1 54 65 92 134 39.1 25.5 57.5 66.8
38 Zimbabwe 2.9 3.4 2.3 10 12 18 28 44.5 28.5 53.7 67.5
39 Sudan 3.0 2.7 3.0 26 34 60 117 45.2 35.5 52.4 60.9
40 Zambia 3.0 3.6 3.0 8 II 21 49 48.3 41.6 49.7 56.6
Middle-income economies 2.2 w 1.8w 1.5 w 1,401 t 1,561 1 2,1401 35.4 w 25.3 w 60.1 w 65.0 wLower-middle-income 2.2 w 2.0 w 1.8 w 774t 894 1 1,302 1 36.8 w 27.0 w 58.7 w 64.8 w

41 Bolivia 2.6 2.5 2.4 7 9 14 22 41.2 28.1 55.9 66.3
42 COte d'Ivoire 4.1 3.8 3.3 12 17 32 67 48.2 38.2 49.7 59.0
43 Senegal 2.9 3.0 2.8 8 tO 18 38 45.5 38.1 51.6 59.3
44 Philippines 2.5 2.4 1.9 63 74 102 140 39.2 24.0 59.1 68.5
45 Papua New Guinea 2.4 2.3 2.3 4 5 7 12 40.3 29.0 57.2 66.5
46 Cameroon 3.0 2.8 3.1 12 16 29 56 44.7 35.7 51.6 61.0
47 Guatemala 2.8 2.9 2.9 9 12 21 36 45.2 30.3 52.3 65.0
48 Dominican Rep. 2.6 2.2 1.6 7 8 II 14 37.4 23.0 60.6 67.7
49 Ecuador 3.0 2.6 2.1 II 13 18 25 38.9 23.9 58.9 68.5
50 Morocco 2.4 2.6 2.2 26 31 45 65 40.7 24.6 57.5 68.7

51 Jordan 3.7 4.7 4.0 4 5 9 14 43.6 27.4 56.7 67.3
52 Tajikistan . . 3.0 3.1 5 7 13 21 44.9 30.3 50.2 64.2
53 Peru 2.8 2.2 1.9 22 26 36 48 37.1 23.4 60.8 68.4
54 ElSalvador 2.4 1.4 2.0 5 6 9 14 43.0 25.2 55.2 69.1
55 Congo 3.0 3.4 3.4 2 3 6 IS 45.5 40.8 49.5 56.9
56 Syrian Arab Rep. 3.3 3.3 3.4 13 17 34 69 48.1 35.5 49.3 61.0
57 Colombia 2.2 2.0 1.5 33 38 50 63 34.8 22.2 62.9 67.8
58 Paraguay 3.0 3.1 2.6 4 6 9 13 40.3 27.1 56.7 66.2
59 Uzbekistan . . 2.4 2.4 21 26 42 65 41.6 27.5 53.9 65.5
60 Jamaica 1.3 1.0 0.5 2 2 3 4 33.0 21.7 61.8 67.3
61 Romania 0.9 0.4 0.2 23 23 25 26 23.1 18.5 66.8 64.3
62 Namibia 2.8 3.1 3.2 I 2 3 7 44.8 34.2 51.5 61.9
63 Tunisia 2.2 2.4 1.9 8 10 13 18 37.0 23.3 60.2 68.5
64 Kyrgyzstan . . 1.9 1.4 4 5 7 II 38.2 25.8 55.6 66.3
65 Thailand 2.7 1.9 1.4 57 65 82 104 32.4 21.8 65.9 68.5

66 Georgia 0.7 0.4 5 6 6 7 23.9 19.6 64.5 62.1
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

288


--- Page 303 ---
Average annual growth ofpopulation Hypothetical size Age structure ofpopulation (percent)
(percent) Population (millions) ofstationary 0-14 years 15-64 years
population
1970-80 1980-91 1991_2(xxJa 1991 2000a 2025a (millions) 1991 2025a 1991 2025a
67 Azethaijan 1.4 1.4 7 8 II 13 33.! 22.6 60.1 65.3
68 Turkmenistan . . 2.5 2.5 4 5 8 13 41.3 29.5 54.2 64.1
69 Turkey 2.3 2.3 1.9 57 68 91 121 35.2 23.! 61.8 68.0
70 Poland 0.9 0.7 0.3 38 39 43 49 24.8 19.9 65.7 62.9
71 Bulgaria 0.4 0.! -0.2 9 9 8 9 20.1 17.5 66.8 62.8
72 Costa Rica 2.8 2.7 2.0 3 4 5 6 48.2 22.5 49.7 66.2
73 Algeria 3.1 3.0 2.7 26 33 53 82 43.1 27.0 53.5 67.4
74 Panama 2.5 2.1 1.7 2 3 4 5 34.6 22.4 61.9 67.4
75 Armenia . . 0.9 1.5 3 4 5 6 30.! 21.8 62.3 64.1
76 Chile 1.6 1.7 1.3 13 15 19 23 30.6 21.8 63.3 65.9
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 3.3 3.6 3.4 58 78 160 354 45.8 37.3 51.0 58.6
78 Moldova 0.9 0.! 4 4 5 7 31.6 23.0 60.0 63.4
79 Ukraine . . 0.4 0.0 52 52 52 55 21.2 18.4 65.6 62.2
80 Mauntius 1.5 1.0 1.! 1 1 1 2 29.0 20.4 67.5 66.7
81 Czechoslovakia 0.7 0.3 . . 16 . . . . . . 21.2 . . 67.5
82 Kazakhstan . . 1.2 0.7 17 18 22 28 31.6 22.3 62.4 64.6
83 Malaysia 2.4 2.6 2.2 18 22 3! 43 38.6 23.9 58.5 67.6
Upper-middle-income 2.2 w 1.5 w 1.1 w 627 1 667 t 839 1 33.5 w 22.6 w 62.1 w 65.5 w
84 Botswana 3.8 3.5 2.8 I 2 3 4 45.7 26.9 52.2 68.0
85 South Africa 2.8 2.5 2.2 39 47 69 103 38.6 25.6 58.3 67.4
86 Lithuania . . 0.8 0.2 4 4 4 5 22.5 19.6 65.6 62.5
87 Hungary 0.4 -0.2 -0.4 10 10 10 10 20.0 17.8 67.7 61.8
88 Venezuela 3.5 2.6 1.9 20 23 32 41 36.7 23.0 61.3 67.5
89 Argentina 1.7 1.3 1.0 33 36 43 53 29.4 21.7 62.2 65.2
90 Uruguay 0.4 0.6 0.6 3 3 4 4 25.4 20.2 63.3 63.8
9! Brazil 2.4 2.0 1.4 15! 172 224 285 34.2 22.6 62.8 67.5
92 Mexico 2.9 2.0 1.9 83 99 136 182 37.6 23.3 60.0 68.3
93 Belams . . 0.6 0.2 10 II II 12 22.9 19.0 64.8 62.1
94 Russian Federation 0.6 0.0 149 149 153 162 23.2 18.7 65.6 61.9
95 Latvia . . 0.3 -0.! 3 3 3 3 21.7 19.6 65.1 61.7
96 TrinidadandTobago 1.! 1.3 0.9 1 I 2 2 34.2 22.6 60.9 66.4
97 Gabon 4.7 3.5 2.9 I 2 3 7 39.7 39.8 53.4 56.2
98 Estonia 0.8 0.6 0.0 2 2 2 2 22.3 18.5 65.8 62.7
99 Portugal 1.3 0.! 0.0 10 10 10 9 20.2 16.0 67.9 65.0
100 Oman 4.2 4.3 3.9 2 2 5 10 46.6 37.1 51.1 58.3
101 Puerto Rico 1.7 0.9 0.9 4 4 5 5 27.5 19.7 64.6 64.0
102 Korea, Rep. 1.8 1.! 0.8 43 47 53 56 25.1 18.2 71.0 66.6
103 Greece 1.0 0.5 0.! 10 10 10 9 18.6 15.1 67.2 61.4
104 Saudi Arabia 5.0 4.6 3.5 15 2! 41 82 43.0 34.8 54.7 59.6
105 Yugoslavia 0.9 0.6 24 22.5 67.7
Low- and middle-income 2.2 w 2.0 w 1.7 w 4,528 t 5,247 1 7,325 1 35.4 w 26.3 w 60.5 w 65.4 w
Sub-Saharan Africa 2,8 w 3.1 w 3.0 w 489 t 635 1 1,192 1 48.5 w 38.0 w 53.1 w 59.0 w
East Asia & Pacific 1.9 w 1.6 w 1.4 w 1,667 1 1,891 1 2,3671 29.5 w 22.0 w 65.1 w 67.5 w
South Asia 2.4 w 2.2 w 1.9 w 1,152 t 1,3681 1,908 1 38.0 w 25.4 w 57.7 w 67.4 w
Europe and Central Asia 0.9 w 0.6 w 492 t 475 1 546 1 26.! w 20.9 w 64.8 w 63.9 wMiddle East & N. Africa 2.9 w 3.2 w 2.9 w 244 t 315 1 552 i 42.9 w 32.1 w 53.4 w 62.7 w

Latin America & Caribbean 2.4 w 2.0 w 1.6 w 445 I 515 1 691 1 36.0 w 23.3 w 60.8 w 67.3 w
Severely indebted 2.3 w 2.1 w 1.8 w 486: 569 I 800 1 36.7 w 25.5 w 59.9 w 66.0 w
High-income economies 0.8 w 0.6 w 0.5 w 822 1 864: 922 i 19.7 w 17.2 w 67.1 w 61.2 wOECI) niembers 0.7 w 0.6 w 0.5 w 783 1 820 1 869 1 19.3 w 17.2 w 67.0 w 61.2 w

106 Ireland 1.5 0.2 0.3 4 4 4 5 26.0 19.1 65.0 65.2
107 (Israel 2.7 2.2 2.8 5 6 8 tO 30.9 21.0 62.9 65.6
108 NewZealand 1.! 0.7 0.8 3 4 4 5 22.8 19.4 65.8 63.!
109 Spain 1.0 0.4 0.! 39 39 39 33 19.3 14.5 68.6 63.3
110 tHongKong 2.4 1.2 0.8 6 6 7 6 20.6 15.4 70.3 61.4
III (Singapore 2.0 1.7 1.5 3 3 4 4 22.9 18.3 70.7 63.5
112 United Kingdom 0. I 0.2 0.2 58 58 60 61 19.0 17.8 64.7 62.0
113 Australia 1.5 1.5 1.3 17 19 23 25 22.1 18.8 67.0 63.5
114 Italy 0.5 0.2 0.! 58 58 55 45 16.2 14.0 68.6 60.9
115 Netherlands 0.8 0.6 0.8 15 16 16 15 18.3 16.4 67.3 58.5
116 Belgium 0.2 0.1 0.2 10 10 10 10 17.7 16.7 66.0 60.6
117 Austria 0.! 0.2 0.4 8 8 8 7 17.3 15.7 66.8 61.5
118 France 0.6 0.5 0.4 57 59 63 63 19.9 17.3 65.6 60.9
119 Canada 1.2 1.2 0.8 27 29 34 35 20.9 18.0 67.1 61.2
120 UnitedStates 1.0 0.9 0.9 253 274 319 348 21.5 19.1 65.6 61.8

121 Germany 0.0 0.! 0.0 80 80 75 65 16.2 15.1 67.9 60.5
122 Denmark 0.4 0.! 0.2 5 5 5 5 17.0 16.2 67.7 60.8
123 Finland 0.4 0.4 0.3 5 5 5 5 19.2 17.2 66.7 59.2
124 Norway 0.5 0.4 0.4 4 4 5 5 18.9 17.7 64.5 61.5
125 Sweden 0.3 0.3 0.6 9 9 10 10 18.! 18.1 63.8 59.8
126 Japan 1.2 0.5 0.3 124 127 126 III 18.1 15.! 69.6 59.2
127 Switzerland 0.0 0.6 0.7 7 7 7 7 16.9 16.0 67.5 59.0
World 1.9 w 1.7 w 1.6 w 5,350 I 6,111 1 8,2471 32.8 w 25.3 w 61.5 w 65.0 wFuel exporters 3.2 w 3.3 w 3.0 w 263 1 342 1 613 t 48.6 w 33.2 w 57.0 w 62.1 w

a. For the assumptions used in the projections, see the technical notes.

289


--- Page 304 ---
Table 27. Demography and fertility

- Women of
Crude birth rate Crude death rate childbearing age Assumed year Married womenof
(per /000 (per 1,0(k) as a percentage of ofreaching childbearing age
population) population) all women Totalfertilsy rate net using contraception
reproduction (percent)b
1970 1991 1970 199/ 1965 1991 1970 199/ 2tXjOa rate of I /989
Low-income economies 39 w 30 w 14 w lOw 46 w 51 w 6.0 w 3.8 w 3.2 w
China and India 37 w 26 w 12 w 9w 46 w 53 w 5.8 w 3.1 w 2.5 w
Other low-income 45 w 38 w 19 w 13w 45 w 47 w 6.3 w 5.2 w 4.5 w
I Mozambique 48 45 24 19 47 45 6.7 6.5 6.7 2050
2 Tanzania 49 46 22 18 45 45 6.4 6.3 6.6 2035
3 Ethiopia 43 50 20 21 46 44 5.8 7.5 7.3 2045
4 Uganda 50 52 17 19 44 43 7.1 7.3 6.6 2050 II
5 Bhutan 41 39 22 17 48 47 5.9 5.9 5.4 2035

6 Guinea-Bissau 41 45 27 25 50 47 5.9 6.0 6.0 2040
7 Nepal 46 38 22 13 50 46 6.4 5.5 4.6 2030
8 Burundi 46 46 24 17 44 45 6.8 6.8 6.6 2045 9
9 Chad 45 44 26 18 47 46 6.0 5.9 6.1 2040
10 Madagascar 46 43 20 14 47 45 6.6 6.2 5.2 2035

11 Sierra Leone 49 48 30 22 47 45 6.5 6.5 6.5 2045
12 Bangladesh 48 34 21 13 44 48 7.0 4.4 3.3 2015 31
13 Lao PDR 44 44 23 16 47 45 6.1 6.7 6.0 2040
14 Malawi 56 53 24 21 46 45 7.8 7.6 7.4 2055
15 Rwanda 52 42 18 17 45 43 7.8 6.4 7.6 2040

16 Mali 51 50 26 19 46 45 6.5 7.0 7.0 2050 5
17 Burkina Faso 48 47 25 18 47 45 6.4 6.5 6.3 2045
18 Niger 50 52 28 19 45 44 7.2 7.4 7.3 2055
19 India 41 30 18 10 48 50 5.8 3.9 3.0 2015 45
20 Kenya 53 45 18 II 41 43 8.0 6.5 5.5 2050 27

21 Nigeria 51 44 21 14 45 45 6.9 5.9 5.0 2035 6
22 China 33 22 8 7 45 56 5.8 2.4 2.1 1995 72
23 Haiti 39 35 19 13 45 48 5.9 4.7 4.2 2025 II
24 Benin 50 45 22 15 44 44 6.9 6.3 5.2 2035
25 Central African Rep. 37 42 22 17 47 46 4.9 5.8 5.3 2045
26 Ghana 46 45 16 13 45 44 6.7 6.2 5.1 2035 13
27 Pakistan 48 41 19 II 43 46 7.0 5.7 4.6 2030 12
28 Togo 50 48 20 14 46 45 6.5 6.6 5.5 2040 33
29 Guinea 52 49 27 21 45 44 6.0 6.5 6.5 2045
30 Nicaragua 48 40 14 7 43 46 6.9 5.1 4.2 2025

31 Sri Lanka 29 21 8 6 47 54 4.3 2.5 2.1 2000 62
32 Mauritania 47 49 25 19 47 44 6.5 6.8 6.8 2050
33 Yemen, Rep. 53 52 23 14 47 44 7.8 7.5 7.5 2045
34 Honduras 49 38 15 7 44 46 7.2 5.0 4.1 2025 4'
35 Lesotho 43 35 20 II 47 46 5.7 5.1 4.5 2025
36 Indonesia 42 25 18 9 47 52 5.5 3.0 2.4 2005 50
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 40 32 17 9 43 48 5.9 4.2 3.1 2020 38
38 Zimbabwe 53 36 16 8 42 47 7.7 4.7 3.4 2020 43
39 Sudan 47 44 22 15 46 45 6.7 6.3 5.4 2035 9
40 Zambia 49 47 19 15 46 45 6.7 6.5 6.1 2045
Middle-income economies 35w 25w 11w 8w 45w 49w 5.0w 3.2w 3.1w
Lower-middle-income 36 w 28 w 12 w 8 w 45 w 49 w 5.3 w 3.6 w 3.4 w
41 Bolivia 46 36 19 10 46 48 6.5 4.8 3.7 2025 30
42 Cóted'Ivoire 51 46 20 14 44 42 7.4 6.6 5.8 2040
43 Senegal 47 43 22 16 45 45 6.5 6.1 6.3 2040
44 Philippines 38 28 11 7 44 50 6.4 3.6 2.7 2010
45 Papua New Guinea 42 34 18 II 47 49 6.1 4.9 4.0 2025
46 Camemon 43 42 18 12 47 44 5.8 5.8 5.3 2035 /6
47 Guatemala 45 39 14 8 44 45 6.5 5.4 4.3 2030 23
48 Dominican Rep. 41 27 II 6 43 51 6.3 3.! 2.4 2005 56
49 Ecuador 43 30 12 7 43 50 6.3 3.7 2.8 2010 53
50 Morocco 47 32 16 8 45 49 7.0 4.3 3.4 2015 36

51 Jordan 37 5 45 46 . - 5.3 5.6 2025 35
52 Tajikistan . . 39 . . 6 . . 44 5.9 5.3 . . 2030
53 Peru 41 27 14 8 44 51 6.0 3.4 2.8 2010
54 ElSalvador 44 34 12 7 44 47 6.3 4.1 3.2 2015 47
55 Congo 43 49 16 16 45 43 5.9 6.6 6.3 2045

56 Syrian Arab Rep. 47 44 13 6 . . 43 7.7 6.3 5.4 2040
57 Colombia 36 24 9 6 43 54 5.3 2.7 2.2 2000 66
58 Paraguay 38 33 7 6 41 49 6.0 4.4 4.0 2025 48
59 Uzbekistan . . 35 . . 6 . . 47 5.7 4.3 . . 2025
60 Jamaica 34 24 8 7 42 52 5.3 2.7 2.1 2000 55

61 Romania 21 14 10 II 50 48 2.9 1.9 2.1 2030
62 Namibia 44 43 18 II 46 45 6.0 5.7 4.8 2035
63 Tunisia 39 27 14 6 43 50 6.4 3.5 2.7 2010 50
64 Kyrgyzstan . . 29 . . 8 . . 46 4.9 3.9 . . 2020
65 Thailand 39 21 9 6 44 55 5.5 2.3 2.1 1995 66

66 Georgia 15 8 48 2.6 2.1 . . 1995
Note: For data comparability, see the technical notes. Figures in italica are for yeara other than those specified.

290


--- Page 305 ---
Women of Assumed year Married women of
Crude birth rate Crude death rate childbearing age ofreaching childbearing age
(per 1000 (per 1000 as a percentage of net using contraception
population) population) all women Totalferttlzt' rate reproduction (percent)b
1970 1991 1970 199/ 1965 199/ 1970 /991 2000a rate oil J989
67 Azerbaijan 27 . 6 . . 50 4.7 2.8 . 2010
68 Turkmenistan . 34 . . 7 . . 47 6.0 4.5 . . 2030
69 Thrkey 36 28 12 7 45 50 4.9 3.4 2.7 2010 63
70 Poland 17 14 8 II 47 48 2.2 2.! 2.1 2030
71 Bulgaria 16 II 9 12 51 47 2.2 1.8 1.9 2030
72 Costa Rica 33 27 7 4 42 51 4.9 3.2 2.3 2005
73 Algeria 49 34 16 7 44 46 7.4 5.0 3.7 2025 36
74 Panama 37 25 8 5 44 52 5.2 2.9 2.2 2005
75 Armenia . . 23 . . 7 . . 50 3.2 2.7 . . 2005
76 Chile 29 23 10 6 45 53 4.0 2.7 2.1 2000
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 45 44 16 9 42 44 6.7 6.2 5.6 2045
78 Moldova . . 17 . . II 43 2.6 2.5 2000
79 Ukraine . . 12 . . 13 . . 45 2.1 1.8 . . 2030
80 Mauritius 29 17 7 6 45 56 3.6 2.0 1.8 2030
81 Czechoslovakia 16 14 12 12 46 . . 2.1 1.9 2.0
82 Kazakhstun . . 21 . . 8 . . 49 3.4 2.8 . . 2000
83 Malaysia 36 29 10 5 44 50 5.5 3.7 3.0 2015
Upper-middle-income 32 w 21 w 10 w S w 46 w 50 w 4.6 w 2.7 w 2.6 w
84 Botswana 53 36 17 6 45 46 6.9 4.8 3.1 2020 33
85 SouthAfrica 39 31 14 9 46 49 5.7 4.1 3.4 2020
86 Lithuania . . IS . . II . . 48 2.4 2.0 . . 2030
87 Hungaly 15 12 12 14 48 47 2.0 1.8 1.8 2030
88 Venezuela 38 29 7 5 44 52 5.3 3.7 2.7 2005
89 Argentina 23 21 9 9 50 47 3.1 2.8 2.3 2000
90 Uruguay 21 17 10 10 49 47 2.9 2.4 2.1 1995
91 Brazil 35 24 10 7 45 52 4.9 2.8 2.4 2000 6.5
92 Mexico 43 28 10 5 43 51 6.5 3.2 2.4 2010 53
93 Belarus . . 13 . . II . . 46 2.4 1.9 2030
94 Ruusian Federation . . 12 . . II . . 46 2.0 1.7 . . 2030
95 Latvia . . 14 . . 13 . . 45 1.9 2.0 . . 2030
96 TrinidadandTobago 28 24 8 6 46 51 3.6 2.8 2.3 2000 53
97 Gabon 31 42 21 15 48 46 4.2 5.8 6.1 2045
98 Eotonia 15 14 II 12 . . 46 2.1 2.1 . . 2030
99 Portugal 20 12 10 II 48 49 2.8 1.4 1.6 2030
100 Oman 50 41 21 5 47 42 7.2 6.8 5.9 2040
101 PuertoRico 25 18 7 7 48 52 3.2 2.3 2.1 1995
102 Korea Rep. 30 16 9 6 46 57 4.3 1.8 1.8 2030 77
103 Greece 17 10 8 9 51 47 2.3 1.4 1.6 2030
104 SaudiArabia 48 37 18 5 45 43 7.3 6.5 5.9 2040
105 Yugoslavia 18 14 9 9 50 2.3 2.0 2.0
Low- and middle-income 38 w 28 w 13w lOw 46 w 50 w 5.7 w 3.6 w 3.2 wSub-Saharan Africa 48 w 46 w 21 w 16w 45 w 44w 6.6 w 6.4 w 5.9 w

East Asia & Pacific 35 w 24 w 9w 7w 45 w 55 w 5.7 w 2.7 w 2.2 w
South Asia 42 w 32 w 18 w 11 w 47 w 49 w 6.0 w 4.2 w 3.3 w
Europe and Central Asia 22 w 17w lOw 10 w 48 w 47 w 2.9 w 2.3 w 2.3 w
Middle East & N. Africa 45 w 38 w 16 w 8w 44w 46 w 6.8 w 5.3 w 4.6 w
Latin America & Caribbean 36 w 26 w 10 w 7w 45 w 51 w 5.2 w 3.1 w 2.6 w
Severely indebted 36 w 27 w 11 w 8 w 46 w 50 w 5.2 w 3.5 w 3.0 w
High-income economies 18 w 13 w 10 w 9 w 47 w 50 w 2.4 w 1.8 w 1.7 wOECD members t7 w 13 w 10 w 9 w 47 w 50 w 2.4 w 1.8 w 1.7 w

106 Ireland 22 15 II 9 42 49 3.9 2.1 2.1 2030 60
107 tlsrael 26 2! 7 6 46 50 3.8 2.8 2.3 2000
108 NewZealand 22 17 9 8 45 52 3.2 2.1 2.0 1995
09 Spain 20 10 8 9 49 50 2.8 1.3 1.5 2030
110 tHongKong 21 13 5 6 45 56 3.3 1.4 1.5 2030 81
III tSingapore 23 18 5 5 45 60 3.1 1.8 1.9 2030
112 United Kingdom 16 14 12 II 45 48 2.4 1.8 1.8 2030
113 Australia 21 15 9 7 47 53 2.9 1.9 1.9 2030
114 Italy 17 10 10 9 48 49 2.4 1.3 1.4 2030
115 Netherlands 18 13 8 9 47 SI 2.6 1.6 1.6 2030
116 Belgium 15 13 12 II 44 48 2.2 1.7 1.6 2030
117 Austria 15 12 13 II 43 49 2.3 1.6 1.6 2030
118 France 17 13 II 9 43 49 2.5 1.8 1.8 2030
119 Canada 17 15 7 7 47 53 2.3 1.9 1.7 2030
120 UnitedStates 18 16 tO 9 46 5! 2.5 2.1 1.9 1995
121 Germany 14 10 13 II 45 47 2.1 1.4 1.6 2030
122 Denmark 14 13 10 12 47 50 1.9 1.7 1.6 2030
123 Finland 14 13 10 10 48 49 1.8 1.9 1.8 2030
124 Norway 17 14 10 II 45 49 2.5 1.9 1.8 2030 84
125 Sweden 14 14 10 II 47 47 1.9 2.1 1.9 1995
126 Japan 19 10 7 7 56 50 2.! 1.5 1.6 2030 56
127 Switzerland 16 13 9 9 48 50 2.1 1.6 1.7 2030
World 34 w 26 w 13 w 9 w 46 w 50 w 5.0 w 3.3 w 3.0 w
Fuel exporters 47w 41 w 18w II w 44w 45w 6.8w 5.7w 5.0w
a. For assumptions used in the projections, see the technical notes to Table 26. b. Data include women whose husbands practice contraception; see the technical notes.

291


--- Page 306 ---
Table 28. Health and nutrition

Births Infant mortaltt:i rate Yearsof Prevalence
Population per attended by Babies with low (per /,IXXI live le lost of
Physician Nursing person health staff birth weight births) populationper i , malnutrition
(percent) (percent) (under 51
/970 1990 1970 /990 1985 1985 /970 /991 /990 /990
Low-income economies 14,080 w 6,760 w 5,580 w 109 w 71 wChina and India 4,890 w 2,460 w 2,994) H' 96w 60w
Other low-income 22,380 w 11,730w 11,580w 136 w 91 w

I Mozambique 18,860 4,280 28 15 171 149 141
2 Tanzania 22,600 24,880 3,310 5,470 74 14 132 115 112 20
3 Ethiopia 86,120 32,650 58 158 130 107
4 Uganda 9,210 . 0 10 109 118 107 45
5 Bhutan 13,110 3 182 132
6 Guinea-Bissau 17,500 2,820 16 20 185 148
7 Nepal 51,360 16,830 17,700 2,760 10 157 101 67 .
8 Burundi 58,570 . 6,870 . . 12 14 138 107 81 38
9 Chad 61,900 30,030 8,010 . . II 171 124 106 35
10 Madagascar 10,120 8,130 240 . 62 10 181 114 63 53
II SierraLeone 17,830 2,700 . 25 14 197 145 188
12 Bangladesh 8,450 . . 65,780 . . . . 31 140 103 69 60
13 Lao PDR 15,160 4,380 1,390 490 . 39 146 100 93
14 Malawi 76,580 45.740 5,330 1,800 59 10 193 143 110 60
15 Rwanda 59,600 72,990 5,610 4,190 17 142 III 124 33
16 Mali 44,090 19,450 2,590 1,890 27 17 204 161 108 31
17 BurkinaFaso 97,120 57,320 . . 1,680 . 18 178 133 114 46
18 Niger 60,090 34,850 5,6/0 650 47 20 170 126 121 49
19 India 4,890 2,460 3,710 33 30 137 90
20 Kenya 8,000 10,130 2,520 . . 13 102 67 45

21 Nigeria 19,830 4,240 . . 25 139 85 98
22 China . S . 2,500 . . . 6 69 38 .
23 Haiti 12,520 7,410 . 20 17 141 94 69
24 Benin 28,570 . . 2,6(X) . . 34 10 155 III 89 35
25 Central African Rep. 44,740 25,930 2,460 . . . . 15 139 lOb 74 .
26 Ghana 12,910 22,970 690 1,670 73 17 III 83 55 36
27 Pakistan 4,310 2,940 6,600 5,040 24 25 142 97 61 57
28 logo 28,860 . . 1,590 . . . . 20 134 87 79 14
29 Guinea 50,010 . . 3,720 . . 18 181 136 125
30 Nicaragua 2,150 1,450 . . S 15 106 56 45 .

31 SriLanka 5,900 . . 1,280 . 87 28 53 18 14 45
32 Mauritania 17,960 . . 3,740 . . 23 10 165 119 . . 30
33 Yemen, Rep. 34,790 . . . . . . . . . . 175 109 104
34 Honduras 3,770 3,090 1,470 . 50 20 110 49 27 21
35 Lesotho 30,400 . . 3,860 . . 28 10 134 81 . . 27
36 Indonesia 26,820 7,030 4,810 . . 43 14 118 74 36 14
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 1,900 1,320 2,320 490 24 7 158 59 33 13
38 Zimbabwe 6,300 7,180 640 1,000 69 15 96 48 37 12
39 Sudan 14,520 . . 990 . . 20 IS 149 101 84 55
40 Zambia 13,640 11,290 1,730 600 14 106 106 86
Middle-income economies 3,640 w 2,060w 1,640w SOw 38wLower-middle-income 5,000 w 2,850 w 1,300 w 87w 42w

41 Bolivia 2,020 3,070 36 15 153 83 59 18
42 Cbted'Ivoire 15,520 . . 1,930 . . 20 14 135 95 50 12
43 Senegal 15,810 17,650 1,670 10 135 81 99 22
44 Philippines 9,270 8.120 2,690 . . . . 18 66 41 27 19
45 PapuaNewGuinea 11,640 12,870 1,710 1,180 34 25 112 55 79
46 Cameroon 28,920 12,190 2,560 1,690 . . 13 126 64 67
47 Guatemala 3,660 . . . . . . 19 10 100 60 41 34
48 Dominican Rep. . . . . 1,400 . . 57 16 90 54 24 /3
49 Ecuador 2,910 980 2,680 620 27 10 100 47 21 38
50 Morocco 13,090 4,840 1,050 . . 9 128 57 43 12

51 Jordan 2,480 770 870 500 75 7 29 18
52 Tajikistan . . 350 . . S S . 50 24
53 Peru 1,920 . . . . 55 9 108 53 32 13
54 ElSalvador 4,100 890 . . 35 15 103 42 28
55 Congo 9,510 780 12 126 115 24
56 SyrianArabRep. 3,860 1,160 1,790 870 37 9 96 37 25
57 Colombia 2,260 . . . . 51 15 77 23 II 12
58 Paraguay 2,300 . . 2,2/0 . . 22 6 57 35 22 4
59 Uzbekistan . . 280 . . S S S S . 44 20
60 Jamaica 2,630 530 . . 89 8 43 15 8

61 Rornania 840 560 430 99 6 49 27 19 .
62 Namibia . . 4,620 . . . . . . . . 118 72 . . .
63 l'unisia 5,930 1,870 940 3(X) 60 7 127 38 21 JO
64 Kyrgyzstan . . 280 . . . S S . . 40 20
65 Thailand 8,290 5,000 1,170 550 33 12 73 27 22 26
66 Georgia 170 . . . 5 16 15
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

292


--- Page 307 ---
Births Years of Prevalence
Population per Infant mortaltr rareattended byBabies with low life lost of
health staff birth weight (Per I . live per I,(XX) malnutrition
Phisician Nursing person @ercent) (percent) births) population (under 5)
/970 I /970 / 990 1970 I/9851985 1990 1990
67 Azerbaijan 250 33 16
68 Turkmenistan 290 ' 56 29
69 Turkey 2,230 1,260 1,010 78 7 147 58 31
70 Poland 700 490 250 8 33 15 16
71 Bulgaria 540 320 240 100 27 17 15
72 Costa Rica 1,620 /030 460 . . 93 9 62 14
73 Algeria 8.100 2,330 . . 330 . . 9 139 64 27
74 Panama 1,660 840 1,560 . . 83 8 47 21 . . 25
75 Armenia . . 250 . . . . . . . . . 22 14
76 Chile 2,160 2,150 460 340 97 7 78 17 13 2
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 3,270 3/40 1,780 1,150 9 131 68 32
78 Moldova . . 250 . . . . . . . . . . 23 19
79 Ukraine . . 230 . . . . . . . . . . 18 16
80 Mauritius 4,190 1.180 610 . . 90 9 60 19 . . 24
81 Czechoslovakia 470 310 170 . . 100 6 22 II 16
82 Kazakhstan . . 250 . . . . . . . . . . 32 19
83 Malaysia 4,310 2,700 /270 380 82 9 45 15 15 24
Upper-middle-income 1,740 w 640 w 2,010 w 72 w 34 w
84 Botswana 15.220 5,150 1,900 . . 52 8 101 36 . . 15
85 South Africa 1,750 300 12 79 54 44)
86 Lithuania . . 220 . . . . . . . . 14 19
87 Hungary 510 340 210 . . 99 10 36 16 IS
88 Venezuela 1,120 630 440 330 82 9 53 34 13 5
89 Argentina 530 960 6 52 25 12
90 Umguay 910 . . . . . . . . 8 46 21 IS 9
91 Brazil 2,030 . . 4,140 . . 73 8 95 58 26 13
92 Mexico 1,480 . . 1,610 . . IS 72 36 17 14
93 Belarus . . 250 . . . IS 14
94 Russian Federation 210 20 17
95 Latvia 200 . 23 16
96 Trinidad and Tobago 2,250 190 90 44 19 9
97 Gabon 5,250 . . 570 . . 92 16 138 95 25
98 Estonia 210 . 20 14
99 Portugal 1,110 490 820 8 56 II 12
100 Oman 8,380 1,060 3,420 60 14 159 31
101 Puerto Rico 29 14 10
102 Korea, Rep. 2,220 1,370 1,190 65 9 SI 16 10
103 Greece 620 580 990 6 30 10 10
104 Saudi Arabia 7,460 660 2,070 420 78 6 119 32 37
105 Yugoslavia 1,000 530 420 I/O . . 7 56 21 16
Low- and middle-income 10,260 w 4,970 w 4,640 w 102 w 61 w
Sub-Saharan Africa 31,730 w 23,540 w 3,460 w 144 w 104 w
East Asia & Pacific 15,760 w 6,170 w 2,720 w 76 w 42 w
South Asia 6,120 w 2,930 w 10,150 w 138 w 92 w
Europe and Central Asia 1,070 w 420 w 520 w 63 w 26 w
Middle East & N. Africa 6,410 w 2,240 w 1,940w 135 w 60w
Latin America & Caribbean 2,020 w 1,180 w 2,640 w 82 w 44w
Severely indebted 2,910 w 1,680 w 2,330 w 85 w 48w
High-income economies 710 w 420 w 220 w 20 w 8 w
OECD members 700 w 420 w 220 w 20 w 8 w
106 Ireland 980 630 160 . . 4 20 8 II
107 tlsrael 410 . . 99 7 25 9 9
108 New Zealand 870 . . /50 99 5 17 9 Il
109 Spain 750 280 . . . . 96 . . 28 8 10
110 tHongKong 1,510 . . 560 . . . . 4 19 7 7
Ill tSingapore 1,370 820 250 . . 100 7 20 6 9
112 UnitedKingdom 810 240 . . 98 7 19 7 12
113 Australia 830 . . 99 6 18 8 9
114 Italy 550 210 . . 7 30 8 10
115 Netherlands 800 410 300 . . 4 13 7 10
116 Belgium 650 310 . . . . 100 5 21 8 II
117 Austria 540 230 300 70 . . 6 26 8 II
118 France 750 350 270 . . 5 18 7 10
119 Canada 680 450 140 99 6 19 7 9
120 United States 630 420 160 . . 100 7 20 9 II

121 Germany 580° 370° . . . . 5° 23 7 12
122 Denmark 690 390 . . . . . . 6 14 8 12
123 Finland 960 410 130 . . . . 4 13 6 II
124 Norway 720 . . 160 . . 100 4 13 8 10
125 Sweden 730 370 140 . . 100 4 Il 6 II
126 Japan 890 610 3/0 . 100 5 13 5 8
127 Switzerland 700 (,30 . . 5 15 7 10
World 7,640 w 3,980 w 3,940 w 85 w 53 w
Fuel exporters 10,730 w 2,030 w 2,770 w 128 w 70 w
a. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.

293


--- Page 308 ---
Table 29. Education

Percentageofage group enrolled in education
PrtmarY Secondary Primary net
enrollment Primary pupil!
Total Female Total Female Tertiary (total) (percent) teacher ratio
1970 1990 /970 /990 /970 1990 1970 1990 /970 /990 /975 /990 /970 /990
Low-income economies 74 w 105 w 98 w 21 w 41 w 34 w 2 w 36 w 38 wChina and India 83w 119w 109w 25w 46w 38w 1w .. 34w 38w

Other low-income SSw 79w 44w 73w 13w 28w 8w 24w 3w 4w 72w 39w 39w

I Mozambique 47 58 48 5 7 5 0 41 69 58
2 Tanzania 34 63 27 63 3 4 2 4 0 47 47 35
3 Ethiopia 16 38 10 30 4 15 2 12 0 1 28 48 36
4 Uganda 38 76 30 4 13 2 I 1 34 35
5 Bhuian 6 26 1 20 1 5 0 2 0 21 37
6 Guinea-Bissau 39 59 23 42 8 7 6 4 0 0 59 45
7 Nepal 26 86 8 57 10 30 3 17 3 6 64 22 37
8 Bumndi 30 72 20 64 2 5 I 4 1 I 37 67
9 Chad 35 57 17 35 2 7 0 3 1 65 67
lO Madagascar 90 92 82 90 12 19 9 18 3 64 65 40
II Sierral.eone 34 48 27 39 8 16 5 l2 I I 32 34
12 Bangladesh 54 73 35 68 . . 17 . . II 3 3 . 65 46 63
13 Lao PDR 53 104 40 91 3 26 2 21 I / 69 36 28
14 Malawi . . 71 . 64 . . 4 . 3 I / 54 43 64
IS Rwanda 68 69 60 68 2 7 I 6 0 1 65 60 57

16 Mali 22 24 15 17 5 6 2 4 . . . l9 40 42
17 Burkina Faso 13 36 10 28 I 7 I 5 0 1 . . 29 44 57
18 Niger 14 29 10 21 I 7 I 4 0 I . 25 39 42
19 India 73 97 56 83 26 44 IS 33 6 . . . 41 61
20 Kenya 58 94 48 92 9 23 5 19 1 2 88 34 3l

21 Nigeria 37 72 27 63 4 20 3 17 2 3 . . 34 41
22 China 89 135 . 129 24 48 . . 41 I 2 100 29 22
23 Haiti 53 0 . . 6 . . 4 . . . . . . . . 47 2!
24 Benin 36 61 22 44 5 II 3 6 2 3 . 52 4l 35
25 CentralAfiicanRep. 64 67 41 51 4 11 2 6 I 2 55 64 90
26 Ghana 64 75 54 67 14 39 8 31 2 2 30 29
27 Pakistan 40 37 22 26 13 22 5 13 . . 3 . . 41 41
28 Togo 71 103 44 80 7 22 3 10 2 3 72 58 59
29 Guinea 33 37 21 24 13 10 5 5 5 I . . 26 44 40
30 Nicaragua 80 98 81 101 18 38 l7 44 14 . 65 75 37 33
31 SriLanka 99 107 94 105 47 74 48 77 3 4 . . . 0
32 Mauritania 14 51 8 42 2 16 0 10 4 . . . . 24 49
33 Yemen, Rep. 22 . . 7 . . 3 . . S . .
34 Honduras 87 108 87 109 14 . . 13 . . 8 9 . . 35 .
35 Lesotho 87 107 101 115 7 26 7 31 2 5 70 46 55
36 Indonesia 80 117 73 114 16 45 11 41 . 72 98 29 23
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 72 98 57 90 35 82 23 71 18 19 38 25
38 Zimbabwe 74 117 66 116 7 50 6 46 I 5 36
39 Sudan 38 49 29 . . 7 20 4 . . 2 3 . . 47 34
40 Zambia 90 93 80 91 13 20 8 14 2 2 . 80 47 44
Middle-income economies 94 w 103 w 88 w 99 w 33 w 126 w 28 w 59 w 14 w 16 w 89w 33w 25w
Lower-middle-income 93 w 100 w 83 w 97 w 31 w 172 w 24 w 57 w 12 w 16 w 87 w 33 w 25 w
41 Bolivia 76 82 62 78 24 34 20 31 17 23 73 82 27 25
42 Côte d'Ivoire 58 . . 45 . . 9 . . 4 . . 3 . . . . . . 45 36
43 Senegal 41 58 32 49 10 16 6 II 3 3 . . 48 45 58
44 Philippines 108 111 . . 110 46 73 . . 75 3 27 95 99 29 33
45 PapuaNewGuinea 52 71 39 65 8 12 4 10 2 . . 73 30 32
46 Cameroon 89 101 75 93 7 26 4 21 2 4 69 75 48 51
47 Guatemala 57 79 51 . . 8 8 8 53 36
48 Dominican Rep. 100 95 100 96 21 . . . . . . . . 55 47
49 Ecuador 97 . . 95 . . 22 . . 23 . . 37 20 78 . . 38
50 Morocco 52 68 36 55 13 36 7 30 6 10 47 55 34 27

51 Jordan . . . . . . . . 39 17
52 Tajikistan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
53 Peru 107 126 99 . . 31 70 27 . . 19 36 95 35 28
54 El Salvador 85 78 83 78 22 26 21 26 4 17 . . 70 36 40
55 Congo . . 6 . . 62 66
56 SyrianArabRep. 78 109 59 102 38 52 21 43 18 20 87 98 37 25
57 Colombia 108 110 110 III 25 52 24 57 10 14 . . 73 38 30
58 Paraguay 109 107 103 106 17 30 17 30 9 8 83 95 32 25
59 Uzbekistan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
60 Jamaica 119 105 119 105 46 60 45 63 7 5 90 99 47 37

61 Romania 112 91 113 96 44 92 38 90 II 9 . . .
62 Namibia . . 94 . . 99 . . 34 . . 38 . . . . . 64 47 28
63 Tunisia 100 116 79 109 23 45 13 40 5 9 95
64 Kyrgyzstan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
65 Thailand 83 85 79 85 17 32 15 32 13 16 . . . . 35 18
66 Georgia
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

294


--- Page 309 ---
Percentage of enrolled in education PnmI)age group
Primary Secondary net
enrollment Primary pupill
Total Female Total Female Tertiary (total) (percent) teacher ratio
/970 1990 /970 1990 /970 1990 1970 /990 1970 1990 1975 1990 1970 1990
67 Azerbaijan . -
68 Turkmenistan . -
69 Turkey 110 110 94 105 27 54 15 42 6 14 99 38 30
70 Poland 101 98 99 98 62 82 65 84 18 22 96 97 23 16
7! Bulgaria 101 96 00 95 79 74 . . 75 16 31 96 85 22 15
72 CostaRica 110 102 09 101 28 42 29 43 23 26 92 87 30 32
73 Algena 76 95 58 88 II 60 6 53 6 12 77 88 40 28
74 Panama 99 /07 97 105 38 59 40 62 22 21 87 92 27 20
75 Armenia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
76 Chile 107 98 107 97 39 74 42 77 13 19 94 86 50 29
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 72 112 52 106 27 56 18 47 6 . . 94 32 28
78 Moldova . . . . .
79 Ukraine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 8
80 Mauritius 94 106 93 /04 30 52 25 53 I 2 82 92 32 21
81 Czechoslovakia 98 93 98 93 31 84 39 87 17 18 . . . . 20 19
82 Kazakhstan .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. ..
83 Malaysia 87 93 84 93 34 56 28 58 4 7 . . . . 3! 20
Upper-middle-income 95 w 106 w 93 w 105 w 35 w 54 w 31 w . 15 w 17 w 80 w 91 w 34 w 25 w
84 Botswana 65 110 67 112 7 46 6 47 I 3 58 91 36 32
85 South Africa 99 99 18 17 34
86 Lithuania . . . . . . . . . . . . .
87 Hungary 97 94 97 94 63 79 55 79 13 IS . . 90 18 12
88 Venezuela 94 92 94 94 33 35 34 41 21 29 81 61 35 23
89 Argentina 105 Ill 106 114 44 . . 47 22 . . 96 19 19
90 Uruguay 112 106 109 106 59 77 64 18 50 . . . . 29 23
91 Brazil 82 108 82 . . 26 39 26 . . 12 12 71 88 28 23
92 Mexico 104 112 101 110 22 53 17 53 14 14 98 46 31
93 Belanis
94 Russian Federation . . .
95 1..atvia . . . .
96 Trinidad and Tobago 106 95 107 96 42 80 82 87 90 34 26
97 Gabon 85 . 81 . . 8 5 . . 4 . . . 46
98 Estonia
99 Portugal 98 119 96 117 57 59 51 59 II 18 91 99 34 14
100 Oman 3 103 I 99 . . 54 48 . - 5 32 84 18 28
101 PuertoRico 117 . . . . . 71 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
102 Korea,Rep. 103 108 103 110 42 87 32 85 16 39 99 100 57 36
103 Greece 107 1(X) 106 101 63 99 55 97 17 29 97 96 31 2)
104 SaudiArabia 45 78 29 72 12 48 5 41 7 14 42 62 24 16
105 Yugoslavia 106 95 103 95 63 79 58 79 22 18 27 23
Low- and middle-income 79 w 104 w 64 w 98 w 24 w 61 w 18 w 39 w 6 w 7 w 91 W 35 w 35 is
Sub-Saharan Africa 46 w 68 w 36 w 61 w 6 w 17 w 4 w 16 w I w 2 w . - 46 w 43 w 41 is
East Asia & Pacific 88 w 127 w 77 w 123 w 24 w 49 w 16 w 44 w 4 w 5 w 100 w 30 w 23 is
South Asia 67 w 88 w 50 w 75 w 25 w 39 w 14 w 29 w 3 w . . , 67 w 42 w 58 is
Europe and Central Asia 105 w 101 w 100 w 100 w 50 w 71 w 44 w 70 w 14 w 16 w 89 w 27 w 19 is
Middle East & N. Africa 68 w 97 w 50 w 90 w 24 w 365 w IS w SO w 10 w 12 w 85 w 35 w 26 is
Latin America & Caribbean 95 w 107 w 94 w 106 w 28 w 49 w 26 w 57 w 15 w 16 w . . 88 w 34 w 26 is
Severely indebted 90 w 104 w 85 w 98 w 31 w 209 w 27 w 56 w 14 w 15 w 78 w 88 w 32 w 25 is
High-income economies 106 w 104 w 106w 104w 73 w 92w 71 w 96w 36 w w 88w 97 w 26 w 17 w
OECD members 106 w 104 w 106 w 104 w 74 w 93 w 73 w 96 w 36 w 33 w 88 w 97 w 26 w 17 w
106 Ireland 106 100 106 /01 74 98 77 102 20 26 91 88 24 27
107 tlsrael 96 93 95 95 57 83 60 86 29 33 . . . . 17 18
108 New Zealand 110 106 109 lOS 77 89 76 91 29 41 100 100 21 19
109 Spain 123 109 125 108 56 107 48 112 24 34 100 1(X) 34 21
110 tHong Kong 117 106 115 . 36 . . 31 . II . . 92 . . 33
Ill tSingapore lOS 110 101 109 46 69 45 71 . . 8 100 1(X) 30 26
112 United Kingdom 104 107 104 107 73 84 73 85 20 25 97 1(X) 23 20
113 Australia 115 lOS 115 lOS 82 83 80 85 25 35 98 97 28 17
114 Italy 110 97 109 96 61 79 55 78 28 31 97 . . 22 12
115 Netherlands 102 117 102 118 75 103 69 101 30 34 92 100 30 13
116 Belgium 103 102 104 103 81 104 80 104 26 37 . . 99 20 10
117 Austria 104 103 103 102 72 83 73 85 23 33 89 93 21 II
118 France Ill III 117 110 74 99 77 100 26 40 98 100 26 12
119 Canada 101 lOS 100 104 65 106 65 107 42 70 . . 96 23 IS
120 United States . . 105 104 . 92 91 56 75 72 99 27
121 Germany . . 105 . 105 . 97 . . 103 . . 32 87 . . 18
122 Denmark 96 98 97 98 78 109 75 110 29 32 . . 9 II
123 Finland 82 99 79 99 102 114 106 124 32 47 . - 10() 22 18
124 Norway 89 99 94 99 83 100 83 102 26 43 100 98 20 6
125 Sweden 94 107 95 107 86 91 85 93 31 33 100 100 20 6
126 Japan 99 101 99 101 86 96 86 97 31 31 99 100 26 21
127 Switzerland 18 26
World 83w 104w 71w 99w 31w 65w 28w 46w 13w 11w 92w 33w 33w
Fuel exporters 59w 89w 44w 83w 15w 39w 11 w 35w Sw 11 w 90w 34w 32 is'

295


--- Page 310 ---
Table 30. Income distribution and PPC estimates of GDP

Percentage share ofincome or conswnption PPC estimatesofGDP per capita a
Lowest Second Third Fourth Highest Highest United Slates = 100 Current international dollars

Year 20 percent quintile quintile quintile 20 percent 10 percent /987 /99/ Observeda Regression
Low-income economies
China and India
Other low-income

I Mozambique . . . . . . . . . . . 2.7' 2.7' . . 600
2 Tanzania 1991 d.c 2.4 5.7 10.4 18.7 62.7 46.5 2.5 2.6 570 640
3 Ethiopia I98l_82'g 8.6 12.7 16.4 21.1 41.3 27.5 1.9 1.7 37O 620
4 Uganda l989_90d.e 8.5 12.1 16.0 21.5 41.9 27.2 47c SIC 1,120
5 Bhutan . 2.8' 2.8C . 620

6 Guinea-Bissau . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.1 C 3.1 C 690
7 Nepal 1984-85"' 9.1 12.9 16.7 21.8 39.5 25.0 4.8c 5.1 C 1,130
8 Burundi 3.2c 33C . 720
9 Chad 2.9c 33C . 730
10 Madagascar . . . . . . 3.6 3.2 7lO 1,120

II Sierra Leone . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.5 3.6 800 1,190
12 Bangladesh l98889 9.5 13.4 17.0 21.6 38.6 24.6 5.0 5.2 I,l60 990
13 LaoPDR . 8.3C 8.7c . 1,930
14 Malawi . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.5 3.6 8O0 570
IS Rwanda l98385 9.7 13.1 16.7 21.6 38.9 24.6 3.9 3.1 680 750

16 Mali . . . . . . . . 2.3 2.2 480 730
17 BurkinaFaso . . . . . . 34C 34C 750
18 Niger . . . . . . . . . . . 3.9 3.6C , 790
19 India l989_90d.c 8.8 12.5 16.2 21.3 41.3 27.1 4.6 5.2 i,I50 1,900
20 Kenya l981_83i.k 2.7 6.4 11.1 18.9 60.9 45.4 6.1 6.1 l,3SO 1,490

21 Nigeria . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.5 6.1 l,360 1,900
22 China I990" 6.4 11.0 16.4 24.4 41.8 24.6 6.5 7.6 1,680' 2,040
23 Haiti . . . 6.7C . . 1,220
24 Benin . . . . . . . . 7.3 6.8 I,500 1,180
25 Central African Rep. . . . . . . . 55C 49C. 1,090

26 Ghana I988_89d.c 7.0 11.3 15.8 21.8 44.1 29.0 8.9C 9.00 . 2,000
27 Pakistan 199ld.e 8.4 12.9 16.9 22.2 39.7 25.2 8.3 8.9 l,970 1,570
28 Togo 6.4k' 59C 1,310
29 Guinea . . . . , . . . . . . . . . .
30 Nicaragua . . . l5.5 ll.5' 2,550

31 Sn 1985_86h.i 4.9 8.4 12.4 18.2 56.2 43.0 11.0 12.0 2,65O 2,580
32 Mauritania . . . 6.9' 6.3' . . 1,390
33 Yemen, Rep. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
34 Honduras 1989h. 2.7 6.0 10.2 17.6 63.5 47.9 8.5 8.2 I,820m 2,670
35 L.esotho 1986_87h. 4.5 6.5 10.0 17.6 61.3 45.0 7.2C 8.5C . 1,890

36 Indonesia I990d.c 8.7 12.1 15.9 21.1 42.3 27.9 10.5 12.3 2,730m 2,720
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. . . 16.3 16.3 3,600 3,140
38 Zimbabwe . . . . . . . 9.2 9.8 2,1601 2,580
39 Sudan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
40 Za,nbia . . . . . . . . . . . 5.3 4.6 I,OIO 1,010
Middle-income economic
Lower-middle-income

41 Bolivia . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.6 9.8 2,170m 2,260
42 Côted'Ivoire l988d.e 7.3 11.9 16.3 22.3 42.2 26.9 9.1 6.8 i,5i0 1,680
43 Senegal . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.9 7.6 I,68O 1,600
44 Philippines l988 6.5 10.1 14.4 21.2 47.8 32.1 10.8 11.0 2,440 2,900
45 Papua New Guinea . . . 8.8 8.3' . . 1,830

46 Cameroon 15.1 10.8 2,400 1,970
47 Guatemala I989" 2.1 5.8 10.5 18.6 63.0 46.6 14.4 14.4 3,180m 2,600
48 Dominican Rep. l989 4.2 7.9 12.5 19.7 55.6 39.6 15.5 13.9 3,080m 3040
49 Ecuador 17.8 18.7 4,140m 3,950
50 Morocco l990_9ld.e 6.6 10.5 15.0 21.7 46.3 30.5 13.8 15.1 3,340 2,800

51 Jordan 29.3 C 22.00 4,870
52 Tajikistan 11.9 9.9 2.180'
53 Peru 1985_86cj.e 49 9.2 13.7 21.0 51.4 35.4 19.7 14.1 3,IIOm 2,930
54 El Salvador 9.5 9.5 2,IIOm 2,750
55 Congo 13.1 12.7 2,800f

56 SynanArabRep. 20.9 23.6 5,220 4,630
57 Colombia 1988 h.i 4.0 8.7 ' 13.5 20.8 53.0 37.1 23.7 24.7 5.460m 4,080
58 Paraguay 14.9 15.5 3,420m 2,900
59 Uzbekistan 12.1 12.6 2.790'
60 Jamaica l990 6.0 9.9 14.5 21.3 48.4 32.6 15.1 16.6 3,670 4,050

61 Romania 42.3 31.2 6,900
62 Namibia
63 Tunisia 1990 d.e 5.9 10.4 15.3 22.1 46.3 30.7 20.2 21.2 4.6901 3,780
64 Kyrgyzst.an 14.2 14.8 3,2801
65 Thailand l988d.1 6.1 9.4 13.5 20.3 50.7 35.3 17.1 23.8 3,740

66 Georgia .. .. .. .. 24.7 16.6 3,670
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figums in italics am for years other than specified.

296


--- Page 311 ---
Percentage share of income or consumption PPC estimatesofGDPper capita a
Lowest Second Third Fourth Highest Highest United States = 100 Current international dollars

Year 20 percent quintile qaintile qaintile 20 percent JO percent /987 /991 Observed a Regression b
67 Azerbaijan . . . . 20.2 16.6 3,670
68 Thrkmenistan . . . 17.3 16.0 3,540'
69 Thrkey . . . . . . . . . . 21.0 21.9 4,840 3,950
70 Poland I989i 9.2 13.8 17.9 23.0 36.1 21.6 24.8 20.3 4,SOO 4,720
71 Bulgaria . . S . . 31.lc 22.5c . 4,980
72 Costa Rica 1989h,i 4.0 9.1 14.3 21.9 50.8 34.1 22.5 23.0 5,100w 4,320
73 Algeria . . . 0 S S 28.6' 25.5' . 5,640
74 Panama I989 2.0 6.3 11.6 20.3 59.8 42.1 25.6 22.2 4,910w 5,030
75 Armenia S . . . . . . 24.3 20.8 4,610'
76 Chile 1989h.j 3.7 6.8 10.3 16.2 62.9 48.9 27.3 31.9 7060w 5,380
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. . . . . . . 22.1 21.l 4,67o 6,760
78 Moldova . . . . . . . . 23.1 21.0 4,640
79 Ukraine . . . . . . . . 25.7 23.4 5,180'
80 Mauritius . . . . . . . . 40.8 50.5 I l,I8O 5,480
81 Czechoslovakia . . . . . . . . . 35.0' 28.4' . . 6,280
82 Kazakhstan . . . . . . . . . . . . 23.0 20.3 4,490
83 Malaysia l9891 4.6 8.3 13.0 20.4 53.7 37.9 26.5 33.4 7,400k 6,530
Upper-middle-income
84 Botswana 95_it.g 1.4 4.6 9.4 18.2 66.4 49.6 16.7 21.2 4,690 4,080
85 South Africa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
86 Lithuania . . . . . . . . . . . . 29.4 24.4 5,4l0
87 Hungary 1989h 10.9 14.8 18.0 22.0 34.4 20.8 31.9 27.5 6,O80 5,260
88 Venezuela 1989h.i 4.8 9.5 14.4 21.9 49.5 33.2 36.3 36.7 8.120w 6.990
89 Argentina . . . . . . . . . . 25.6 23.1 5,120m 5,840
90 Umguay . . . . . . . . . . . . 30.4 30.1 6,670w 5,690
91 Brazil 1989h,i 2.1 4.9 8.9 16.8 67.5 51.3 26.0 23.7 5,240w 4,180
92 Mexico l984 4.1 7.8 12.3 19.9 55.9 39.5 31.4 32.4 7,l70 5,190
93 Belan.is . . . . 29.7 31.0 6,850
94 Russian Federation . . . . . . . . 35.2 31.3 6,930'
95 Latvia . . . . . . . . 37.2 34.1 7,540
96 TrinidadandTobago . . . . . . . 42.5c 379C 8,380
97 Gabon . . . . . . . . . . . . .
98 Estonia . . . . . . . . . . . . 45.8 36.6 8,090'
99 Portugal . . . . . . . . . . . . 35.9 42.7 9,450 7,730
100 Oman . . . . . . . . 38.5 40.6C . 8,990
101 PuertoRico . . . . . . . . . . . 447C 493C . 10,920
102 Korea, Rep. . . . . . . . . . . . . 28.6 37.6 8,320 10,070
103 Greece . . . . . . . . . . . . 33.8 34.7 7,680 9,700
104 Saudi Arabia . . . . . . . . . . . . 45.1 49.0c . 10,850
105 Yugoslavia 198951 5.3 10.7 16.2 23.7 44.2 27.4 28.4c
Low- and middle-income
Sub-Saharan Africa
East Asia & Pacific
South Asia
Europe and Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa
Latin America & Caribbean
Severely indebted
High-income economies
OECD members
106 Ireland . . . . . . . . . . . . 42.3 51.6 11,430 15,060
107 tlsrael 1979J.k 6.0 12.1 17.8 24.5 39.6 23.5 60.2 60.8 13,460w 12,980
108 New Zealand l98I_82j.' 5.t 10.8 16.2 23.2 44.7 28.7 68.0 63.1 13,970 12,660
109 Spain 1980_81j.k 6.9 12.5 17.3 23.2 40.0 24.5 50.5 57.3 12,670 13,760
110 tHongKong l980i 5.4 10.8 15.2 21.6 47.0 31.3 74.0 83.7 l8,520 14,470
Ill tSingapore l982_83j.k 5.1 9.9 14.6 21.4 48.9 33.5 57.1 C 71 .2c . 15,760
112 United Kingdom 1979J.k 5.8 11.5 18.2 25.0 39.5 23.3 73.0 73.8 16,340 15,470
113 Australia l985J' 4.4 11.1 17.5 24.8 42.2 25.8 76.7 75.4 16,680 15,820
114 Italy 1986J5 6.8 12.0 16.7 23.5 41.0 25.3 71.4 77.0 17,040 15,960
115 Netherlands l983J.k 6.9 13.2 17.9 23.7 38.3 23.0 70.0 76.0 16,820 19,110
116 Belgium 1978_79J,k 7.9 13.7 18.6 23.8 36.0 21.5 71.5 79.1 17,510 18,470
117 Austria . . . . . . . . . . . . 72.6 79.9 17,690 17,850
118 France I979J5 6.3 12.1 17.2 23.5 40.8 25.5 78.1 83.3 18,430 18,990
119 Canada 1987J.k 5.7 11.8 17.7 24.6 40.2 24.1 90.7 87.3 19,320 19,370
120 United States 1985jk 4.7 11.0 17,4 25.0 41.9 25.0 100.0 100.0 22,130 22,130
121 Germany 1984J.k 6.8 12.7 17.8 24.1 38.7 23.4 80.5 89.3 19,770 21,130
122 Denmark 1981J.k 5.4 12.0 18.4 25.6 38.6 22.3 79.1 80.8 17,880 20,780
123 Finland l98lJ,k 6.3 12.1 184 25.5 37.6 21.7 73.0 72.9 16,130 19,850
124 Norway 1979i.k 6.2 12.8 18.9 25.3 36.7 21.2 79.8 77.6 17,170 20,290
125 Sweden l98lik 8.0 13.2 17.4 24.5 36.9 20.8 80.3 79.0 17,490 19,510
126 Japan 1979i5 8.7 13.2 17.5 23.1 37.5 22.4 74.4 87.6 19,390 23,830
127 Switzerland 1982J.k 5.2 11.7 16.4 22.1 44.6 29.8 95.6 98.4 21,780
World
Fuel exporters
a. Extrapolated from t990 ICP estimates unless noted otherwise; b. See technical notes; c. Obtained from the regression estimates; d. Data refer to expenditure
shares by fractiles of persons; e Data ranked by per capita expenditure; f. Extrapolated from 1985 ICP estimates; g. Data ranked by household expendi-
ture. h. Data refer to income shares by fractiles of persons; i. Data ranked by per capita income; j. Data refer to income shares by fractiles of households; k. Data
ranked by household income; I. These values are subject to more than the usual margin of error (see technical notes); m and n are extrapolated, respectively, from 1980
and 1975 ICP estimates and scaled up by the corresponding US deflator.

297


--- Page 312 ---
Table 31. Urbanization

Urban population Population incapital dcc as a Population in ctttes of! millton or more tn
As a percentage of Average annual growth percentage of /990, as a percentage of
total population rate (percent) Urban Total Urban Total
1970 1991 1970-80 1980-9! /990 1990 1965 /990 /965 1990
Low-income economies 18w 39 w 3.7w 11w 3w 41w 31w 7w 9w
China and India 18 w 46w 3.2w 3w 1w 42w 29w 8w 9w
Other low-income 18 w 28 w 4.7w 5.0w 27w 7w 38w 35w 6w lOw

I Mozambique 6 28 11.5 10.1 38 10 68 38 3 10
2 Tanzania 7 34 12.7 10.1 21 7 38 18 2 6
3 Ethiopia 9 13 4.8 5.3 29 4 27 30 2 4
4 Uganda 8 II 3.6 4.5 41 4
5 Bhutan 3 6 4.1 5.7 22 I . .
6 Guinea-Bissau 15 20 5.8 3.7 36 7
7 Nepal 4 10 7.3 7.3 20 2
8 Bumndi 2 6 7.7 5.7 81 4
9 Chad II 30 8.1 6.3 43 13
10 Madagascar 14 25 5.3 6.2 23 6
II SienaLeone 18 33 5.2 5.3 52 17 . . . .
12 Bangladesh 8 17 6.8 6.1 37 6 50 47 3 8
13 La0PDR 10 19 5.1 6.0 53 10 .
14 Malawi 6 12 7.5 6.0 31 4 . .
15 Rwanda 3 8 8.1 7.6 56 4 . . . .

16 Mali 14 20 4.1 3.8 41 8 . . . . .
17 BurkinaFaso 6 9 4.3 5.2 51 5 . . . . .
l8 Niger 9 20 7.5 7.4 39 8 . . . . .
19 India 20 27 3.9 3.7 4 1 32 32 6 9
20 Kenya 10 24 8.5 7.8 26 6 41 27 4 6

21 Nigeria 20 36 6.1 5.8 23 8 23 24 4 8
22 China 18 60 2.6 . . 2 I 49 27 9 9
23 Haiti 20 29 3.5 3.8 56 16 47 56 8 16
24 Benin 18 38 8.4 SI 12 4 .
25 Central African Rep. 30 48 4.5 4.8 52 24
26 Ghana 29 33 2.7 4.1 22 7 27 22 7 7
27 Pakistan 25 33 4.4 4.6 I 0 44 42 tO 13
28 Togo 13 26 6.4 6.6 55 l4 . . . . .
29 Guinea l4 26 4.8 5.6 89 23 47 88 5 23
30 Nicaragua 47 60 4.4 3.9 46 28 36 44 15 26

31 SriLanka 22 22 1.5 1.5 17 4
32 Mauritania 14 48 lO.4 7.3 83 39
33 Yemen,Rep. 13 30 7.0 7.3 Il 3
34 Honduras 29 45 5.7 5.4 35 15
35 Lesotho 9 21 7.1 7.0 17 4
36 Indonesia 17 31 5.1 5.0 17 5 42 33 7 lO
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 42 47 2.5 3.2 37 17 53 52 22 24
38 Zimbabwe Il 28 5.6 5.8 31 9 . . . . .
39 Sudan 16 22 4.9 3.9 35 8 30 35 4 8
40 Zambia 30 51 5.9 6.0 25 12
Middle-income economies 46w 62w 3.7w 3.2w 25w 14w 40w 40w 17w 24w
Lower-middle-income 41 w 54 w 3.6 w 3.3 w 28 w 13 w 36 w 36 w 13 w 19 w

41 Bolivia 41 52 3.4 4.0 34 17 28 33 II 17
42 Côted'lvoire 27 41 7.5 4.7 45 18 30 45 7 18
43 Senegal 33 39 3.4 4.0 52 20 40 53 13 20
44 Philippines 33 43 3.8 3.7 32 14 28 32 9 14
45 Papua New Guinea 10 16 5.3 4.3 33 5
46 Cameroon 20 42 7.6 5.6 16 7 . . .
47 Guatemala 36 40 3.3 3.5 23 9 . . . . .
48 DominicanRep. 40 61 4.9 3.9 52 31 46 SI 16 31
49 Ecuador 40 57 4.8 4.4 21 12 50 49 19 28
50 Morocco 35 49 4.1 4.3 9 4 39 36 12 17
5 j.1b 50 69 5.7 5.7 46 31 33 38 IS 26
52 Tajikistan . . 32 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
53 Peni 57 71 4.0 3.1 41 29 37 41 19 29
54 ElSalvador 39 45 2.9 2.1 26 II
55 Congo 33 41 4.0 4.7 68 28
56 SyrianArabkep. 44 51 4.1 4.1 34 17 58 60 23 30
57 Colombia 57 71 3.3 2.9 21 IS 38 39 20 27
58 Paraguay 37 48 4.2 4.4 48 23
59 Uzbekistan . . 41 . . . . . . .
60 Jamaica 42 53 2.6 2.1 52 27 .

61 Romania 42 53 2.5 1.2 18 9 21 18 8 9
62 Namibia 19 28 4.9 5.1 36 10 . . . . .
63 Tunisia 44 55 4.1 2.8 37 20 35 37 14 20
64 Kyrgyzstan . . 38 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
65 Thailand 13 23 5.4 4.6 56 13 66 57 8 13
66 Georgia 56
Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

298


--- Page 313 ---
Urban population Population in Population in cities of! million or more in
capital citi as a 1990. as a percentage of
As a percentage of Average annual growth percentage of
total population rate (percent) Urban Total Urban Total
/970 199! 1970-80 1980-9! 1990 /990 1965 1990 1965 1990
67 Azerbaijan . 54
68 Turkmenistan . . . . . . . . . . . . .
69 Turkey 38 63 3.7 5.8 8 5 41 35 14 22
70 Poland 52 62 2.0 1.3 9 6 32 28 16 18
71 Bulgaria 52 68 2.1 1.1 20 13 21 19 10 13
72 Costa Rica 40 48 3.6 3.7 72 34 62 72 24 34
73 Algeria 40 53 4.1 4.8 23 12 24 23 9 12
74 Panama 48 54 2.9 2.9 37 20
75 Armenia . 68 . . . . . . . 0 0
76 Chile 75 86 2.4 2.2 42 36 39 42 28 36
77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 41 57 5.2 5.0 21 12 43 41 16 23
78 Moldova . . 47 .
79 Ukraine . . 67 . . . . . . . . .
80 Mauritius 42 41 1.7 0.5 36 IS . . . . .
81 Czechoslovakia 55 . . 2.7 1.7 II 8 IS II 8 8
82 Kazakhstan . . 57 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
83 Malaysia 27 44 5.0 4.8 22 10 16 22 4 10
Upper-middle-income 53 w 73 w 3.9 w 3.0 w 21 w 15 w 46 w 44 w 23 w 32 w
84 Botswana 8 29 10.0 10.0 37 10 . . . . .
85 South Africa 48 60 3.8 3.8 10 6 40 30 19 18
86 Lithuania . . 68 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
87 Hungary 46 62 2.0 1.1 33 20 43 33 19 20
88 Venezuela 72 85 5.0 2.7 25 21 34 29 24 27
89 Argentina 78 87 2.2 1.8 41 36 53 49 40 42
90 Umguay 82 86 0.6 0.8 45 39 53 45 43 39
91 Brazil 56 76 4.1 3.3 2 2 48 47 24 35
92 Mexico 59 73 4.1 2.9 34 25 41 45 22 32
93 Belarus 66 . . 2.3
94 Russian Federation . . 74 .
95 Latvia . . 71 . . . . .
96 Trinidad and Tobago 39 70 5.0 3.3 12 8
97 Gabon 26 47 8.3 6.0 57 26
98 Estonia . . 72 . . . . .
99 Portugal 26 34 2.6 1.4 48 16 44 46 II 16
100 Oman 5 II 8.0 8.3 41 4 . . . . .
lOt PuertoRico 58 75 3.1 1.9 53 39 46 54 24 40
102 Korea,Rep. 41 73 5.3 3.5 36 26 74 69 24 50
l03 Greece 53 63 1.9 1.3 54 34 59 55 28 34
104 SaudiArabia 49 78 8.4 6.1 17 13 23 29 9 23
105 Yugoslavia 35 . . 3.6 2.8 12 7 II 12 3 7
Low- and middle-income 25 w 46w 3.7 w 6.3 w 15w 6w 41 w 33 w 10 w 13 w
Sub-Saharan Africa 16 w 29 w 5.8 w 5.8 w 33 9w 30 w 30 w 4w 9w
East Asia & Pacific 19w 52 w 3.2 w 11.1 w lOw 4w 47 w 30 w 9w 10 H'
South Asia 19 w 26 w 4.1 w 3.9 w 8w 2w 35 w 35 w 6w 9w
Europe and Central Asia 44w 64w 16 w 9w 31 w 28 w 12w 16 H'
Middle East & N. Africa 41 w 55 w 4.5 w 4.5 w 26 w 14 w 43 w 41 w 17 w 22 H'
Latin America & Caribbean 57 w 72 w 3.7 2.9 w 24 w 16w 44w 44w 24w 33 w
Severely indebted 54w 68w 3.7w 3.0w 21w 14w 41 w 42w 21 w 29w
High-income economies 74w 77w 1.1w 0.8w 12w 9w 38w 37w 27w 29w
OECI) members 74w 77w 1.0w 0.8w 11w 7w 37w 36w 27w 28w
106 Ireland 52 57 2.2 0.5 46 26 . . . . .
107 tlsrael 84 92 3.2 2.3 12 II 43 45 34 41
108 NewZealand 81 84 1.4 0.8 12 10 . . . . .
109 Spain 66 79 2.0 1.1 17 13 26 28 16 22
ItO tHongKong 90 94 2.6 1.5 101 95 90 99 81 93
Ill tSingapore tOO l00 2.0 1.7 101 101 73 100 73 100
112 United Kingdom 89 89 0.1 0.2 14 13 33 26 28 23
113 Australia 85 86 1.6 1.5 2 1 60 59 50 51
114 Italy 64 69 0.9 0.6 8 5 42 37 26 25
115 Netherlands 86 89 1.1 0.6 8 7 18 16 16 14
116 Belgium 94 97 0.3 0.3 10 10 . . . . . 0
117 Austria 52 59 0.7 0.9 47 27 51 47 26 28
118 France 71 74 0.9 0.6 20 15 30 26 20 19
119 Canada 76 77 1.2 1.2 4 3 37 39 27 30
120 United States 74 75 1.0 1.1 2 1 49 48 35 36
121 Germany 80 . . 0.3 . . . . I 19 15 IS 13
122 Denmark 80 87 0.9 0.4 31 27 38 31 29 27
123 Finland 50 60 2.1 0.4 34 20 27 34 12 20
124 Norway 65 75 1.3 1.0 21 16 . . . 0 0
125 Sweden 81 84 0.6 0.4 23 19 17 23 13 20
126 Japan 7l 77 1.8 0.6 19 15 37 36 25 27
127 Switzerland 55 60 0.4 II 7 4
World 35 w 51 w 2.7 w 4.7 w 14 w 6 w 40 w 34 w 14 w 16 w
Fuel exporters 35 w 52 w 5.6 w 4.9 w 25 w 13 w 30 w 31 w 10 w 16 w

299


--- Page 314 ---
Table 32. Women in development

Health and welfare Education
Under-5 mona/itt rate Percentage of cohort
(per / (XX) (tie births) Life expectancy at birth (cears) Maternal persisting to grade 4 Females per 1(X) males
Female Male Female Male Primary Secondarramorialir (per
Female Male /C0.(kX) l:i'e
1991 /991 1970 /991 /970 /99/ births) /988 1970 /986 1970 /986 /970 /990 1970 /990
Low-income economies 96w 104w 54w 58w 53w 61w 308w 78 w 65 w
China and India 75w 80w 57w 60w 57w 64w 115w .. 79 w 65 w
Other low-income 135w 148w 47w 57w 46w 54w 587 w 65 w 66 w 74 w 70 w 61 w 76 w 44w 66w

I Mozambique 265 294 42 48 39 45 76 . . 61
2 Tanzania 153 171 47 49 44 46 342 82 90 88 89 65 98 38 74
3 Ethiopia 185 204 44 50 43 47 57 56 56 56 46 64 32 67
4 Uganda 175 95 SI 47 49 46 550 65 . . 31
5 Bhutan 200 88 41 49 39 47 1,305 5 59 3 4!

6 Guinea-Bissau 236 262 36 39 35 38 43 56 62 53
7 Nepal 139 125 42 53 43 54 833 . . . . . 18 47 16
8 Burundi 169 189 45 50 42 46 47 84 45 84 49 84 17 57
9 Chad 197 219 40 49 37 46 77 . . 81 34 44 9 22
10 Madagascar 156 174 47 52 44 50 333 65 . . 63 . . 86 97 70 99
II Sierra Leone 34I 377 36 45 33 40 67 70 40 56
12 Bangladesh 136 130 44 52 46 53 60 . 43 . 43 47 81 . . 49
13 Lao PDR I53 I72 42 52 39 49 56! 59 77 36 66
14 Malawi 185 205 41 45 40 44 350 55 67 60 72 59 8/ 36 54
IS Rwanda 209 234 46 48 43 45 300 63 76 65 75 79 99 44 56

16 Mali ISO 205 41 50 40 47 2.325 52 68 89 75 55 58 29 48
17 BurkinaFaso 189 209 42 50 39 46 8/0 71 86 68 84 57 62 33 50
18 Niger 303 337 40 48 37 44 75 93 74 78 53 57 35 42
19 India 125 123 49 60 50 60 45 60 71 39 55
20 Kenya 97 113 52 61 48 57 84 78 84 76 71 95 42 78

21 Nigeria 77 95 43 53 40 50 800 64 66 59 76 49 74
22 China 37 48 63 71 61 67 /15 76 . . 81 86 . . 72
23 Haiti 45 164 49 56 46 53 600 0) -- .. 96
24 Benin 57 175 45 52 43 49 /61 71 75 . . 45 . . 44 37
25 Central African Rep. 122 136 45 50 40 45 67 81 67 85 49 63 20 38

26 Ghana 122 140 SI 57 48 53 /000 77 82 75 82 35 63
27 Pakistan 139 137 47 59 49 59 270 56 is') 36 52 25 41
28 Togo I3I 149 46 56 43 52 85 78 86 45 65 26 34
29 Guinea 2I5 239 37 44 35 44 1,247 . . 77 87 46 46 26 31
30 Nicaragua 59 72 55 68 52 64 300 48 62 45 59 101 104 89 138

31 Sn Lanka 19 25 66 74 64 69 80 94 97 73 99 89 93 101 105
32 Mauritania 188 209 41 49 38 45 8(X) . . 83 . . 83 39 69 13 45
33 Yemen, Rep. 148 I66 42 52 41 52 330 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
34 Honduras 54 66 55 68 51 63 22/ . . . . . . . . 99 98 79
35 Lesotho 146 167 50 58 48 55 220 87 87 70 76 ISO 121 Ill 149

36 Indonesia 102 120 49 61 46 58 450 67 82 89 99 84 93 59 82
37 Egypt. Arab Rep. 82 96 52 62 50 60 85 . 93 61 80 48 76
38 Zimbabwe 50 63 52 62 49 59 77 74 81 80 81 79 99 63 88
39 Sudan 156 76 43 53 4l 50 61 75 40 80
40 Zambia I66 86 48 50 45 47 93 99 80 9/ 49 59
Middle-income economies 44w 54w 62w 71w 58w 65w 107w 78w 87w 76w 90w 86w 91w 94w 104w
Lower-middle-income 50 w 60w 61w 69w 57w 64w 111w 79w 87w 80w 88w 80w 90w 89w 104w

41 Bolivia 117 127 48 61 44 57 37! . . . . . . . . 69 90 64
42 Cbte divoire 144 163 46 53 43 50 . . 77 83 83 88 57 71 27 45
43 Senegal 140 160 44 49 42 46 .. .. 90 .. 94 63 72 39 51
44 Philippines 53 68 59 67 56 63 74 . . 85 . . 84 . 94 .
45 PapuaNewGuinea 67 81 47 56 47 55 7(X) 76 . . 84 . . 57 80 37 62

46 Cameroon 112 130 46 57 43 54 59 85 58 86 74 85 36 68
47 Guatemala 76 84 54 67 51 62 33 73 79 . . 65
48 Dominican Rep. 66 72 61 69 57 65 300 55 13 00 OR
49 Ecuador 56 62 60 69 57 64 156 69 70 76
50 Morocco 66 79 53 65 50 61 78 80 83 81 51 66 40 69

SI Jordan 30 33 . . 70 66 90 97 92 99 78 94 53 96
52 Tajikistan 60 66 .. 72 67 39
53 Peru 62 76 56 66 52 62 165 85 . . 74
54 El Salvador 46 50 60 68 56 63 /48 61 . 62 . . 92 98 77 95
55 Congo 59 177 49 54 43 49 86 90 89 98 78 87 43 72

56 Syrian Arab Rep. 37 47 57 69 54 65 143 92 93 95 95 57 87 36 71
57 Colombia 23 29 63 72 59 66 200 57 74 SI 72 101 98 73 100
58 Paraguay 38 46 67 69 63 65 300 70 77 7/ 77 89 93 91 102
59 Uzbekistan 47 59 73 66 43
60 Jamaica 16 20 70 76 66 71 115 100 . 98 100 99 103

61 Romania 28 38 71 73 67 67 90 . 89 97 106 151 174
62 Namibia 85 97 49 60 47 56 08 . . 127
63 Tunisia 40 51 55 68 54 67 /27 . . 91 64 85 38 77
64 Kyrgyzstan 45 58 . . 70 . . 62 43 . .
65 Thailand 30 40 61 72 56 66 37 71 . . 69 88 95 69 97

66 Georgia 18 23 . . 77 . . 69 55
Noic: For data comparability and coverage. sec the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
300


--- Page 315 ---
Health and welfare Education
Under-S mona/it raze Percentage of co/tort
(per I,CWX) live births) Life expectancY at birth (years) Maternal persisting to grade 4 Females per 1(X) males
Female Male Female Male Primary Secondarrumortality (per
Female Male 100.(XX) live
1991 /991 births) /9881970 /99! 1970 1991 1970 1986 1970 /986 /970 /990 /970 1990
67 Azerbaijan 34 45 75 - 67 29 . . . . . . -
68 Turkmenistan 68 83 . 70 . 62 55 - . . . S S - - S - S - -
69 Turkey 70 77 59 70 55 64 146 76 98 81 98 73 89 37 63
70 Poland IS 21 74 75 67 67 . - 99 . - 97 . . 93 95 251 266
71 Bulgaria 18 23 74 75 69 68 9l 9l 100 93 94 93 . - 198
72 Costa Rica 13 16 69 78 65 74 18 93 91 91 90 96 94 III 103
73 Algeria 77 85 54 67 52 65 . . 90 95 95 97 60 SI 40 79
74 Panama 24 28 67 75 64 71 60 97 88 97 85 92 93 99 103
75 Armenia 24 30 . 75 . . 68 35 . . . . - - - . - S -
76 Chile 18 22 66 76 59 68 40 86 . . 83 - - 98 95 130 115
77 Iran. Islamic Rep. 83 91 54 65 55 65 120 75 92 74 93 55 86 49 74
78 Moldova 24 32 - . 72 - . 65 34 . . . - . . - . - - . . - -
79 Ukraine 18 26 74 75 67 66 33 - . . . . . . - 96 . . 127 -
80 Mauritius 22 28 65 73 60 67 99 97 99 97 99 94 98 66 100
81 Czechoslovakia 12 17 73 76 67 68 . . 96 97 98 97 96 97 183 132

82 Kazakhstan 33 44 . 73 . . 64 53 . . . . . . - - - - - -
83 Malaysia IS 21 63 73 60 68 26 . . - 88 95 69 104
Upper-middle-income 36 w 46 w 64 w 72 w 59 w 65 w 104 w 75 w 70 w 94 w 94 w 95 w 101 w 102 w
84 Botswana 36 44 51 70 48 66 . . 97 96 90 97 113 107 88 114
85 South Africa 65 79 56 66 50 59 . . . . . . - - 98 - - 95
86 Lithuania IS 21 75 76 67 65 29 . . . . . - - . . . - . .
87 Hungary 17 23 73 74 67 66 . - 90 97 99 97 93 95 202 198
88 Venezuela 35 44 68 73 63 67 55 84 91 61 81 99 99 102 137
89 Argentina 28 32 70 75 64 68 140 92 . - 69 . - 98 103 156
90 Uruguay 21 25 72 77 66 70 36 - . 98 - - 96 91 95 129 - -
91 Brazil 64) 73 61 69 57 63 140 56 . - 54 - . 99 . . 99 - -
92 Mexico 38 50 64 73 60 67 200 - - 73 - - 94 92 94 - - 92
93 Belarus IS 21 76 76 68 66 25 . - - - - . . - . - . -
94 Russian Federation 2l 29 - . 74 - - 64 49 . - - . . -
95 Latvia 17 23 - - 75 - 64 57 - - - - - . - - - - - - -
96 TrinidadandTobago 21 25 68 74 63 69 89 78 - 74 - - 97 97 113 102
97 Gabon 144 163 46 55 43 52 . - 73 80 78 78 91 43
98 Estonia 13 19 74 75 66 65 41 . . . . . . . - - - -
99 Portugal II IS 71 77 64 70 . 92 . . 92 - - 95 9! 98 116
100 Oman 33 43 49 71 46 67 . . . . 97 1(X) l6 89 82
101 Puerto Rico 16 20 75 80 69 72 21 . . . . . . . - . . - . . -
102 Korea, Rep. 16 22 62 73 58 67 26 96 100 96 100 92 94 65 87
103 Greece 12 14 74 80 70 75 . . 97 99 96 99 92 94 98 103
104 SaudiArabia 33 44 54 71 51 68 . 93 91 - 46 84 16 79
105 Yugoslavia 19 25 70 76 65 70 . - 91 - 99 - 91 94 86 98
Low- and middle-income 80 w 89 w 56 w 63 w 54 w 62 w 238 w 61 w 76 w 64 w 80 w 70 w 81 w 60 w 73 w
Sub-Saharan Africa 167 w 186 w 45 w 52 w 42 w 49 w 686 w 66 w 71 w 69 w 72 w 60 w 76 w 40 w 67 iv
East Asia & Pacific 46 w 58 w 60 w 66 w 58 w 66 w 195 w 78 w -. 82 w 88 w 75 H
South Asia 129 w 127 w 48 w 59 w 50 w 59 w 444 w 45 w 48 w 55 w 69 w 38 w 54 H
Europe and Central Asia 28 w 35 w 69 w 74 w 64 w 66 w 60 w 90 w 97 w 92 w 98 w 89 w 94 w 137 w 143 iv
Middle East & N, Africa 73 w 84 w 54 w 65 w 52 w 63 w 151 w 83 w 90 w 87 w 92 w 54 w 79 w 41 w 72 iv
Latin America & Caribbean 48 w 58 w 63 w 7l w 58 w 65 w 162 iv' 66 w 76 w 60 w 85 w 96 w 97 w 101 w 103 H
Severely indebted 55w 66w 62 w 69w 58w 64w 171 w 75w 80w 73w 89w 87w 88w 109w 115 iv
High-income economies 8w 11w 75w 80w 68w 73w 95w 98w 93w 97w 96w 95w 95w 100w
OECI) members 8w 11w 75w 80w 68w 73w 95w 98w 93w 97w 96w 95w 95w 100w

106 Ireland 9 II 73 78 69 72 . . . - 98 - - 97 96 96 124 /01
107 tlsrael 10 14 73 78 70 74 . 96 97 96 97 92 98 131 1l6
108 New Zealand 9 13 75 79 69 73 . . - 98 - - 98 94 94 94 98
109 Spain 9 II 75 80 70 74 . . 76 98 76 97 99 93 84 102
110 tHong Kong 5 7 73 80 67 75 4 94 . . 92 . . 90 - - 74
Ill tSingapore 7 9 70 77 65 72 10 99 1(X) 99 100 88 90 103 1(X)
112 United Kingdom 8 10 75 79 69 72 . . . . . . . . . . 95 96 94 96
113 Australia 8 10 75 80 68 73 . . 76 97 74 94 94 95 91 99
114 Italy 10 12 75 81 69 74 . . . . . . . . . . 94 95 86 97
115 Netherlands 8 10 77 80 71 74 . . 99 . - 96 - . 96 99 91 109

116 Belgium 10 12 75 80 68 73 . . . - 87 - - 85 94 97 87 - -
117 Austria 9 II 74 80 67 73 . . 95 99 92 98 95 95 95 94
118 France 8 10 76 81 68 73 . . 97 - . 90 - - 95 94 107 106
119 Canada 8 10 76 81 69 74 . 95 97 92 93 95 93 95 96
120 United States 9 l3 75 79 67 72 - . - . . . . . 95 95 . . -

121 Germany' 8 10 74 79 67 73 . . 97 99 96 97 96 96 93 98
122 Denmark 9 II 76 78 71 72 . . 98 100 96 l00 97 96 102 106
123 Finland 7 9 74 79 66 73 . . . 98 . . 99 90 95 112 III
124 Norway 9 II 77 80 71 74 . . 99 . 98 lOS 95 97 lOS
125 Sweden 7 9 77 8! 72 75 . . 98 . . 96 96 95 92 109
126 Japan 5 7 75 82 69 76 . 100 100 100 100 96 95 101 99
127 Switzerland 8 10 76 81 70 74 . . 94 - - 93 98 96 93 99
World 69w 77w 60w 65w 57w 64w 237w 67w 78w 70w 82w 77w 84w 68w 76w
Fuelexporters 114 iv' 127w SOw 61w 48w 58w 492w 75w 88w 75w 88w 60w 81w 51w 80w
a. See the technical notes. b. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification.
301


--- Page 316 ---
Table 33. Forests, protected areas, and water resources

Forest area (thousands of sq. IS, Nationally protected areas (1992) Freshwater resources: annual withdrawal (/970-89)
Annual deforestation As a As a Per capita (cubic meters)
Total area /981-85 Area percentage Total percentage of Industrial

(thousands of total (cubic total water and
Total Closed Total Closed ofsq. km) Number area kilometers) resources Total Domestic agricultural
I,ow-incotue economies
China and India
Other low-income

I Mozambique 154 9 1.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.8 I 53 13 40
2 Tanzania 420 14 3.0 . . 130.0 28 13.8 0.5 I 36 8 28
3 Ethiopia 272 44 0.9 0.! 25.3 II 2. I 2.2 2 49 5 44
4 Uganda 60 8 0.5 0.1 18.7 32 7.9 0.2 0 20 6 14
5 Bhutan 21 2! 0.0 0.0 9.1 5 19.3 0.0 0 14 5 9

6 Guinea-Bissau 21 7 0.6 0.2 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 0 II 3 8
7 Nepal 21 19 0.8 0.8 11.1 12 7.9 2.7 2 151 6 145
8 Bumndi 0 0 0.0 0.0 0.9 3 3.2 0.1 3 20 7 13
9 Chad 135 5 0.8 . . 29.8 7 2.3 0.2 0 34 5 29
10 Madagascar 132 103 1.6 1.5 11.1 36 1.9 16.3 41 1.642 16 1.626
II Sierra Leone 21 7 0.1 0.1 0.8 2 1.1 0.4 0 96 7 89
12 Bangladesh 9 9 0.! 0.1 1.0 8 0.7 22.5 l' 211 6 205
13 La0PDR 136 84 1.3 1.0 0.0 0 0.0 1.0 0 260 21 239
14 Malawi 43 2 1.5 . . 10.6 9 8.9 0.2 2 20 7 13
IS Rwanda 2 I 0.! 0.0 3.3 2 12.4 0.2 2 23 6 17

16 Mali 73 5 0.4 . . 40.! II 3.2 1.4 2 162 3 159
17 Burkina Faso 47 3 0.8 0.0 26.6 12 9.7 0.2 I 18 5 3
IS Niger 26 I 0.7 0.0 97.0 6 7.7 0.3 I' 41 9 32
19 India 640 378 050 . 138.4 332 4.2 380.0 18d 612 18 594
20 Kenya 24 II 0.4 0.2 34.7 36 6.0 1.1 7 50 14 37
2! Nigeria 148 60 4.0 3.0 28.7 21 3.1 3.6 I' 37 II 26
22 China 1,150 978 0.0 . . 286.5 402 3.0 460.0 16 462 28 434
23 Haiti 0 0 0.0 0.0 0.1 3 0.3 0.0 0 7 2 5
24 Benin 39 0 0.7 0.0 8.4 2 7.5 0.1 0 26 7 19
25 Central African Rep. 359 36 0.6 0.1 61.1 13 9.8 0.1 0 25 5 20
26 Ghana 87 17 0.7 0.2 10.7 8 4.5 0.3 35 12 23
27 Pakistan 25 22 0.1 0.1 36.6 53 4.6 53.4 33d 2.053 21 2.032
28 Togo 17 3 0.1 0.0 6.5 II 11.4 0.1 28 17 II
29 Guinea 107 21 0.9 0.4 1.6 3 0.7 0.7 0 40 14 126
30 Nicaragua 45 45 1.2 1.2 9.5 21 7.3 0.9 370 93 278

31 Sri Lanka 17 17 0.6 0.6 7.8 43 11.9 6.3 IS 503 10 493
32 Mauritania 6 0 0.1 0.0 17.5 4 1.7 0.7 lO 494 59 435
33 Yemen, Rep. 0 0 0.0 . . 0.0 0 0.0 1.5 147 179 7 172
34 Honduras 40 38 0.9 0.9 5.0 35 4.4 1.3 I 510 20 490
35 Lesotho 0 0 . . . . 0. I I 0.2 0. I I 31 7 24
36 Indonesia 1,169 1,139 10.00 . 93.4 186 10.2 16.6 95 12 83
37 Egypt, Arab Rep. 0 0 . . . . 8.0 13 0.8 56.4 97d 1,213 85 1.128
38 Zimbabwe 198 2 0.8 0.0 30.7 25 7.9 1.2 5 138 19 119
39 Sudan 477 7 5.0 0.0 93.6 14 3.7 18.6 .092 II 1.081
40 Zambia 295 30 0.7 0.4 63.6 20 8.5 0.4 0 86 54 32
Middle-income economies
Lower-middle-income
41 Bolivia 668 440 1.2 0.9 98.6 27 9.0 1.2 0 184 IS 166
42 Côted'lvoire 98 45 2.6a 19.9 12 6.2 0.7 I 66 5 51
43 Senegal 110 2 0.5 . . 21.8 9 11.1 1.4 4d 202 10 192
44 Philippines 95hi 95 1.40 14a 5.7 27 1.9 29.5 9 693 125 568
45 Papua New Guinea 382 342 0.2 0.2 0.3 6 0.1 0.1 0 28 8 20
46 Cameroon 233 165 l.9a 1.00 20.5 14 4.3 0.4 0 37 17 20
47 Guatemala 45 44 0.9 0.9 8.3 17 7.6 0.7 I 139 13 126
48 Dominican Rep. 6 6 0.0 0.0 9.7 18 19.9 3.0 IS 443 22 421
49 Ecuador 147 143 3.4 3.4 107.5 18 37.9 5.6 2 567 40 527
50 Morocco 32 15 0.1 . . 3.6 10 0.8 11.0 37 499 30 469
SI Jordan I 0 . . . . 1.0 8 1.1 0.5 41d 173 50 123
52 Tajikistan . . . . . . . . 0.9 3 0.6 . . . .
53 Peru 706 697 2.7 2.7 27.0 22 2.1 6.1 15 301 57 244
54 El Salvador I I 0.1 0.1 0.2 5 0.9 1.0 5 245 17 228
55 Congo 213 213 0.2 0.2 11.8 10 3.4 0.0 0 19 12 7
56 Syrian Arab Rep. 2 I 0.0 . . 0.0 0 0.0 3.3 9d 434 30 404
57 Colombia 517 464 8.9 8.2 90.5 41 7.9 0d 172 71 101
58 Paraguay 197 41 4.5 . 12.0 14 3.0 0.4 0" 110 17 94
59 Uzbekistan . . . . . . . . 2.4 10 0.5 . . . .
60 Jamaica I I 0.0 0.0 0.0 I 0.1 0.3 4 159 II 148

61 Romania 67 63 . . . . 10.9 40 4.6 25.4 I2d 1,144 92 1,052
62 Namibia 184 . . 0.3 . . 103.7 II 12.6 0.1 2 84 5 79
63 Tunisia 3 2 0.! . . 0.4 6 0.3 2.3 52d 317 41 276
64 Kyrgyzstan . . . . . . . . 2.0 5 1.0 . . . .
65 Thailand 157 92 2.4a I .6 56.6 92 11.0 31.9 l8 600 24 576
66 Georgia 1.9 15 2.7

Note: For data comparability and coverage, see the technical notes. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.

302


--- Page 317 ---
Forest area (thousands ofsq. km) Nationally protected areas (1992) Freshwater resources: annual withdrawal (1970-89)
Annual deforestation Area As a As a Per capita (cubtc meters)
Total area /981-85 (thousands percentage Total percentage of Industrial
ofsquare of total (cubic iota! water and
Total Closed Total Closed kilometers) Number area kilometers) resources Total Domestic agricultural
67 Azerbaijan . . . .I .8Il 2.0
68 Turkmenistan . . . . . . . .11.18 2.5 . . 0
69 Turkey 202 89 . . . . 2.7 18 0.3 23.8 l8' 434 104 330
70 Poland 87 86 . . . . 22.4 80 7.2 16.8 30 472 76 396
71 Bulgaria 37 33 . . . . 2.6 50 2.4 14.2 7(1 1,600 112 1,488

72 Costa Rica 18 16 0.4 0.4 6.3 27 12.4 1.4 I 780 31 749
73 Algeria 18 IS 0.4 . . 127.0 18 5.3 3.0 16d 160 35 125
74 Panama 42 42 0.4 0.4 13.2 14 17.2 1.3 1 744 89 655
75 Armenia . . . . . . . .2.24 7.4 . . . .
76 Chile 76 76 0.5 . . 137.2 65 18.1 16.8 4 1,623 97 1,526

77 Iran, Islamic Rep. 38 28 0.2 . . 79.8 62 4.8 45.4 39 1,362 54 1,308
78 Moldova . . . . . . . .0.00 0.0 . . . . .
79 Ukraine . . . . . . . .4.617 0.8 . . . .
80 Mauritius 0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 0.4 16 410 66 344
81 Czechoslovakia 46 44 . . . 20.6 65 16.1 5.8 6' 379 87 292
82 Kazakhstan . . . . . . . . 8.4 8 0.3 . . . .
83 Malaysia 210b 210 2.7a . 14.9 48 4.5 9.4 2 768 177 591
Upper-middle-income

84 Botswana 326 0 0.2 . . 102.3 9 17.6 0.1 l 100 5 95
85 SouthAfrica 3 3 . . . . 73.9 229 6.1 9.2 18 410 66 344
86 Lithuania . . . . . . .0.00 0.0 . . . .
87 Hungary 16 16 . . . . 5.8 54 6.2 5.4 5" 502 45 457
88 Venezuela 339 319 2.5 1.3 275.3 104 30.2 4.1 0 387 166 221
89 Argentina 445 445 I .8 . 93.9 112 3.4 27.6 3d 1,042 94 948
90 Uruguay 5 5 . . . .0.38 0.2 0.7 I' 241 14 227
91 Brazil 5,145 3575 138a.b . 257.6 186 3.0 35.0 l' 248 107 141
92 Mexico 484 463 l0.Oa . 98.1 60 5.0 54.2 15 875 53 823
93 Belarus . . . . . . . .2.44 1.1 . . . . .
94 Russian Federation . . . . . . . .200.375 1.2 . . .
95 Latvia . . . . . . . .1.721 2.6 . . . .
96 Trinidad and Tobago 2 2 0.0 0.0 0.2 13 3.9 0.2 3 148 40 108
97 Gabon 206 205 0.2 0.2 10.5 6 3.9 0.1 0 57 41 16
98 Estonia . . . . . .3.236 7.1 . . . .
99 Portugal 30 26 . . . . 5.5 22 6.0 10.5 16 1,075 161 914
00 Oman 0 0 . . . 0.5 2 0.3 0.4 22 561 17 544
101 Puerto Rico . . . . . . . .0.429 4.0 . . . .
102 Korea, Rep. 49 49 . . . . 7.6 26 7.6 10.7 17 299 33 266
103 Greece 58 25 . . . . 1.0 18 0.8 7.0 l2' 720 58 662
104 Saudi Arabia 2 0 . . . . 212.0 9 9.9 2.3 106 321 144 177
105 Yugoslavia 105 91 . . . . 7.9 61 3.1 8.8 3d 393 63 330
Low- and middle-incomeSub-Saharan Africa
East Asia & Pacific
South Asia
Europe aird Central Asia
Middle East & N. Africa
Latin America & Caribbean
Severely indebted
High-income economies
OECI) members
106 Ireland 4 3 . . . . 0.4 6 0.6 0.8 2 235 38 l97
107 jIsrael I I . . . . 2.1 21 10.0 1.9 86d 441 71 370
108 New Zealand 95 72 . . . . 29.0 124 10.7 1.9 0 585 269 316
109 Spain 108 69 . . . . 35.0 161 6.9 45.9 4I' 1,184 142 1,042
110 tHong Kong . . . . . .0.412 36.3 . . . .
Ill tSinapore 0 0 . . . . 0.0 1 4.4 0.2 32 84 38 46
112 UnttedKingdom 22 20 . . . . 46.3 131 18.9 14.5 12 253 51 202
113 Australia 1,067 417 . . 812.4 733 10.6 17.5 5 1,280 832 448
114 Italy 81 64 . . . 20.1 143 6.7 56.2 3051 984 138 846
115 Netherlands 4 3 . . . 3.5 67 9.4 14.5 l6' 993 50 943
116 Belgium 8 7 . . . 0.8 3 2.5 9.0 72d 917 101 816
117 Austria 38 38 . . . 21.2 187 25.3 2.1 2d 279 53 226
118 France 151 139 . . . . 53.6 79 9.7 43.7 24' 783 125 658
119 Canada 4,364 2,641 . . . . 494.5 411 5.0 43.9 2 1,684 303 1,381
120 UnitedStates 2,960 2,096 I.6a . 984.6 937 10.5 467.0 19 1,952 234 1,718
121 Germany 72C 70' . . . . 87.8 472 24.6 44.6' 28c.d 729 73C 656'
122 Denmark 5 5 . . . . 4.1 65 9.5 1.2 9d 228 68 160
123 Finland 232 199 . . . . 8.1 34 2.4 3.0 311 605 73 532
124 Norway 87 76 . . . 14.9 80 4.6 2.0 0 490 98 392
125 Sweden 278 244 . . . . 29.2 189 6.5 3.0 2" 356 128 228
126 Japan 253 239 . . . . 46.7 685 12.3 89.3 16 733 125 608
127 Switzerland II 9 . . . . 7.5 112 18.2 1.1 2" 170 39 131
WorldFuel exporters

a. Data are for the periods as follows: Tanzania 1989, India 1983-87, Indonesia 1982-90, Cole d'lvoire 1981-86. Philippines 1981-88. Cameroon 1976-86. Paraguay
87. b. See the technical notes for alternative estimates. c. Data refer to the Federal Republic of Germany before unification. d. Total water resources include nver flows1989-90, Thailand 1985-88. Costa Rica 1973-89, Malaysia 1979-89. Argentina 1980-89, Brazil (Legal Amazon only) 1989-90, Mexico 1981-83. United States 1977-

from other countries in addition to internal renewable resources.

303


--- Page 318 ---
Table la. Basic indicators for other economies

GNPper capitaa

Average Average annual Life Adult illiteracy
Area annual expectancy
Population (thousands growth rate rate ofinflat,ona at birth (percent)
(thousands) ofsquare Dollars (percent) Female Total(p'rt'hlt)years)
mid-1991 kilometers) 1991 1980-91 /970-80 1980-9/ 199/ /990 1990
I Cambodia 8,790 181 200 . . . 50 78 65
2 Equatorial Guinea 427 28 330 2.8 . . -0.9 47 63 50
3 Gambia,The 902 II 360 -0.1 10.6 18.2 44 84 73
4 SàoloméandPnncipe 118 I 400 -3.3 4.0 21.5 67
5 Guyana 802 215 430 -4.5 9.8 35.0 65 5 4
6 Maldives 221 b 460 6.7 62
7 Comonss 492 2 500 -1.0 . . 56
8 Solomon Islands 325 29 690 3.5 8.4 12.4 65
9 Kiribati 73 I 720 . . 10.6 5.4 56
10 Cape Verde 380 4 750 2.3 9.4 9.4 67 .
II Western Samoa 161 3 960 . . . . 11.6 66
12 Swaziland 828 17 1,050 3.1 12.3 10.3 57
13 Vanuatu 151 12 1,150 5.0 65
14 Tonga 100 I 1,280 . . . . . . 67
IS St.Vincent 108 b 1,730 5.2 13.8 4.4 71
16 Fiji 741 18 1,930 -0.2 12.8 6.1 71
17 Belize 194 23 2.010 2.5 8.7 2.9 68
18 Grenada 91 b 2,180 . . . . . 70
19 Dominica 72 I 2,440 4.7 16.8 6.0 72
20 St. Lucia 153 I 2,490 . . . 72
21 Suriname 457 163 3,630 -4.5 11.8 9.0 68 5 5
22 St. Kjus and Nevis 39 b 3,960 5.8 7.2 70
23 Antigua and Barbuda 80 b 4,430 3.8 . . 6.9 74
24 Seychelles 69 b 5,110 3.2 16.9 3.5 71
25 Barbados 258 b 6,630 1.3 13.5 5.2 75
26 Bahrain 516 1 7,130 -3.8 . . -0.3 69 31 23
27 Malta 357 b 7,280 3.8 4.2 2.1 76
28 Cyprus 710 9 8,640 4.9 . . 5.5 77
29 Bahamas, The 259 14 11,750 1.3 6.4 5.9 69
30 Qatar 506 II 14,770 -12.2 . . 70
31 UnitedArabEmirates 1,629 84 20,140 -6.3 . . 1.1 72
32 Iceland 258 103 23,170 1.8 35.1 30.0 78
33 Luxembourg 385 3 31,780 3.5 6.9 4.2 75 .
34 Afghanistan 20,979 652 f . . 43 86 71
35 Albania 3,301 29 e -0.4 73
36 American Samoa 40 b c
37 Andorra 58 b c . .
38 Angola 1,247 e . . 46 72 58
39 Aruba 9,46161 b d
40 Bermuda 61 b c . . 8.4
41 Bninei 265 6 c 74
42 Channel Islands 145 b c 77
43 Cuba 10,736 III e . . 76
44 Djibouti 452 23 e . 49
45 Faeme Islands 47 1 c
46 Fed. Sts. of Micmnesia 105 b e
47 French Guiana 123 90 d
48 French Polynesia 202 4 c 68
49 Gibraltar 30 b d
50 Greenland 56 342 c
SI Guadeloupe 395 2 c . 74
52 Guam 145 I c . . . 72 .
53 Iraq 18,578 438 d 17.9 10.3 65 51 40
54 Isle of Man 70 1 c .
55 Korea,Dem.Rep. 22,191 121 e . . 71
56 Kuwait 1,460 18 c 21.9 -2.7 75 33 27
57 Lebanon 3,708 10 e . . 66 27 20
58 Liberia 2,639 III f . . 9.2 . . 55 71 61
59 Libya 4,706 1,760 d 18.2 0.2 63 50 36
60 Macao 476 b e . . 73
61 Marshall Islands 48 b e
62 Martinique 363 I d 76
63 Mayotte 76 b' d
64 Mongolia 1,567 ef 1.0 63 . .
65 Myanmar 2,25042,758 677 59 28 19
66 Netherlands Antilles 192 I c . 77
67 New Caledonia 171 19 d . . 70
68 Reunion 602 3 d 72
69 San Marino 23 b c . .
70 Somalia 8,051 638 f 15.2 49.7 48 86 76
71 VietNam 67,679 332 f . . . 67 16 12
72 Virgin Islands (U.S.) 99 b c 12.5 3.9 74 . . .
73 Zaire 38.631 2,345 f 31.4 60.9 52 39 28
a. See the technical note for Table 1. b. Less than 500 square kilometers. c. GNP per capita estimated to be in the high-income range. d. GNP per capita estimatedto be in the upper-middle-income range. e. GNP per capita estimated to be in the lower-middle income range. f. GNP per capita estimated to be in the low-income

range.
304


--- Page 319 ---
Technical notes

The main criterion for country classification is gross dated, some figuresespecially those relating to
national product (GNP) per capita. With the addition current periodsmay be extrapolated. Several esti-
of the recently independent republics of the former mates (for example, life expectancy) are derived from
Soviet Union, the main tables now include country models based on assumptions about recent trends
data for 127 economies, listed in ascending GNP per and prevailing conditions. Issues related to the re-
capita order. A separate table, showing basic indica- liability of demographic indicators are reviewed in
tors for economies with sparse data or with popula- the U.N. 's World Population Trends and Policies.
tions of less than 1 million, Table la covers a further Readers are urged to take these limitations into ac-
seventy-three economies. Other changes are outlined count in interpreting the indicators, particularly
in the Introduction. when making comparisons across economies.
Data reliability Base years
Considerable effort has been made to standardize To provide long-term trend analysis, facilitate inter-
the data, but full comparability cannot be ensured national comparisons and include the effects of
and care must be taken in interpreting the indicators. changes in intersectoral relative prices, constant price
Many factors affect availability and reliability; the sta- data for most economies are partially rebased to three
tistical systems in many developing economies are base years and linked together. The year 1970 is the
still weak, statistical methods, coverage, practices, base year for data from 1960 to 1975, 1980 for 1976 to
and definitions differ widely among countries, and 1982, and 1987 for 1983 and beyond. These three pe-
cross-country and cross-time comparisons involve riods are "chain-linked," to obtain 1987 prices
complex technical problems that cannot be unequivo- throughout all three periods.
cally resolved. For these reasons, while the data are Chain-linking is accomplished for each of the three
drawn from the sources thought to be most authorita- subperiods by rescaling; this moves the year in which
tive they should be construed only as indicating current and constant price versions of the same time
trends and characterizing major differences among series have the same value, without altering the trend
economies rather than offering precise quantitative of either. Components of gross domestic product
measures of those differences. In particular, data is- (GDP) are individually rescaled and summed to pro-
sues have yet to be resolved for the fifteen economies vide GDP and its subaggregates. In this process a
of the former Soviet Union. Coverage is sparse, and rescaling deviation may occur between the constant
the data are subject to more than the normal range of price GDP by industrial origin and the constant price
uncertainty. GDP by expenditure. Such rescaling deviations are
Most social and demographic data from national absorbed under the heading private consumption, etc.
sources are drawn from regular administrative files, on the assumption that GDP by industrial origin is a
although some come from special surveys or periodic more reliable estimate than GDP by expenditure.
census inquiries. In the case of survey and census Because private consumption is calculated as a re-
data, figures for intermediate years have to be inter- sidual, the national accounting identities are main-
polated or otherwise estimated from the base refer- tained. Rebasing does involve incorporating in pri-
ence statistics. Similarly, because not all data are up- vate consumption whatever statistical discrepancies

305


--- Page 320 ---
arise for expenditure. The value added in the services growth rates are calculated for two periods, 1970-80
sector also includes a statistical discrepancy, as re- and 1980-91, and are computed, unless otherwise
ported by the original source. noted, by using the least-squares regression method.
Summary measures Because this method takes into account all observa-
tions in a period, the resulting growth rates reflect
The summary measures are calculated by simple general trends that are not unduly influenced by ex-
addition when a variable is expressed in reasonably ceptional values, particularly at the end points. To
comparable units of account. Economic indicators exclude the effects of inflation, constant price eco-
that do not seem naturally additive are usually com- nomic indicators are used in calculating growth rates.
bined by a price-weighting scheme. The summary Details of this methodology are given at the begin-
measures for social indicators are weighted by ning of the technical notes. Data in italics indicate
population. that they are for years or periods other than those
The World Development Indicators, unlike the specifiedup to two years earlier for economic indi-
World Tables, provide data for, usually, two reference cators and up to three years on either side for social
points rather than annual time series. For summary indicators, since the latter tend to be collected less
measures that cover many years, the calculation is regularly and change less dramatically over short pe-
based on the same country composition over time riods of time.
and across topics. The World Development Indicators All growth rates shown are calculated from con-
permit group measures to be compiled only if the stant price series and, unless otherwise noted, have
country data available for a given year account for at been computed using the least-squares method. The
least two-thirds of the full group, as defined by the least-squares growth rate, r, is estimated by fitting a
1987 benchmarks. As long as that criterion is met, least-squares linear regression trend line to the log-
noncurrent reporters (and those not providing ample arithmic annual values of the variable in the relevant
history) are, for years with missing data, assumed to period. More specifically, the regression equation
behave like the sample of the group that does provide takes the form log X = a + bt + e where this is
estimates. Readers should keep in mind that the pur- equivalent to the logarithmic transformation of the
pose is to maintain an appropriate relationship across compound growth rate equation, X, = X,, (1 + r)t. In
topics, despite myriad problems with country data, these equations, X is the variable, t is time, and a =
and that nothing meaningful can be deduced about log Xo and b = log (1 + r) are the parameters to be
behavior at the country level by working back from estimated; e is the error term. If b* is the least-squares
group indicators. In addition, the weighting process estimate of b, then the average annual percentage
may result in discrepancies between summed sub- growth rate, r, is obtained as [antilog (b*)] and
group figures and overall totals. This is explained multiplied by 100 to express it as a percentage.
more fully in the introduction to the World Tables.
Sources and methods Table 1. Basic indicators

Data on external debt are compiled directly by the For basic indicators for economies with sparse data or
World Bank on the basis of reports from its develop- with populations of less than 1 million, see Table A.1.
ing member countries through the Debtor Reporting Population numbers for mid-1991 are World Bank
System. Other data are drawn mainly from the estimates. These are usually projections from the
United Nations and its specialized agencies, the In- most recent population censuses or surveys; most are
ternational Monetary Fund, and country reports to from 1980-91, and, for a few countries, from the
the World Bank. Bank staff estimates are also used to 1960s or 1970s. Note that refugees not permanently
improve currentness or consistency. For most coun- settled in the country of asylum are generally consid-
tries, national accounts estimates are obtained from ered to be part of the population of their country of
member governments through World Bank economic origin.
missions. In some instances these are adjusted by The data on area are from the Food and Agriculture
Bank staff to provide conformity with international Organization (FAQ). Area is the total surface area,
definitions and concepts, consistency, and measured in square kilometers, comprising land area
currentness. and inland waters.
Growth rates GNP per capita figures in U.S. dollars are calculated
according to the World Bank Atlas method, which is
For ease of reference, only ratios and rates of described below.
growth are usually shown; absolute values are gener- GNP per capita does not, by itself, constitute or
ally available from other World Bank publications, measure welfare or success in development. It does
notably the 1993 edition of the World Tables. Most not distinguish between the aims and ultimate uses

306


--- Page 321 ---
of a given product, nor does it say whether it merely tionally large margin from the rate effectively applied
offsets some natural or other obstacle, or harms or to foreign transactions. This applies to only a small
contributes to welfare. For example, GNP is higher in number of countries. For all other countries the Bank
colder countries, where people spend money on calculates GNP per capita using the World Bank Atlas
heating and warm clothes, than in balmy climates, method.
where people are comfortable wearing light clothes in The Atlas conversion factor for any year is the aver-
the open air. age of a country's exchange rate for that year and its
More generally, GNP does not deal adequately exchange rates for the two preceding years, after ad-
with environmental issues, particularly natural re- justing them for differences in relative inflation be-
source use. The World Bank has joined with others to tween the country and the United States. This three-
see how national accounts might provide insights year average smooths fluctuations in prices and ex-
into these issues. The possibility of developing "sat- change rates for each country. The resulting GNP in
ellite" accounts is being considered; such accounts U.S. dollars is divided by the midyear population for
could delve into practical and conceptual difficulties, the latest of the three years to derive GNP per capita.
such as assigning a meaningful economic value to Some sixty low- and middle-income economies suf-
resources that markets do not yet perceive as fered declining real GNP per capita in constant prices
"scarce" and allocating costs that are essentially during the 1980s. In addition, significant currency
global within a framework that is inherently national. and terms of trade fluctuations have affected relative
GNP measures the total domestic and foreign value income levels. For this reason the levels and ranking
added claimed by residents. It comprises GDP (de- of GNP per capita estimates, calculated by the Atlas
fined in the note for Table 2) plus net factor income method, have sometimes changed in ways not neces-
from abroad, which is the income residents receive sarily related to the relative domestic growth perfor-
from abroad for factor services (labor and capital) less mance of the economies.
similar payments made to nonresidents who contrib- The following formulas describe the procedures for
uted to the domestic economy. computing the conversion factor for year t:
In estimating GNP per capita, the Bank recognizes i
that perfect cross-country comparability of GNP per (e2,) = - Ee_2 I - ps\) + e1
capita estimates cannot be achieved. Beyond the clas- t-2
sic, strictly intractable index number problem, two and for calculating per capita GNP in U.s. dollars for
obstacles stand in the way of adequate comparability. year t:
One concerns the GNP and population estimates
themselves. There are differences in national ac- (Y) (Y / N ± e7_2,,)
counting and demographic reporting systems and in
the coverage and reliability of underlying statistical where
information among various countries. The other ob-
stacle relates to the use of official exchange rates for = current GNP (local currency) for year
converting GNP data, expressed in different national = GNP deflator for year
currencies, to a common denominationconven- e = average annual exchange rate (local currency to the
tionally the U.S. dollarto compare them across U.S. dollar) for year
countries. = midyear population for year
Recognizing that these shortcomings affect the P = U.S. GNP deflator for year
comparability of the GNP per capita estimates, the Because of problems associated with the availabil-
World Bank has introduced several improvements in ity of comparable data and the determination of con-
the estimation procedures. Through its regular re- version factors, information on GNP per capita is not
view of member countries' national accounts, the shown for some economies.
Bank systematically evaluates the GNP estimates, fo- The use of official exchange rates to convert na-
cusing on the coverage and concepts employed and, tional currency figures to U.S. dollars does not reflect
where appropriate, making adjustments to improve the relative domestic purchasing powers of curren-
comparability. As part of the review, Bank staff esti- cies. The U. N. International Comparison Programme
mates of GNP (and sometimes of population) may be (ICP) has developed measures of real GDP on an in-
developed for the most recent period. ternationally comparable scale, using purchasing
The World Bank also systematically assesses the power of currencies (PPCs) instead of exchange rates
appropriateness of official exchange rates as conver- as conversion factors. Table 30 shows the most recent
sion factors. An alternative conversion factor is used PPC estimates. Information on the ICP has been pub-
(and reported in the World Tables) when the official lished in four studies and in a number of other re-
exchange rate is judged to diverge by an excep- ports. The most recent study is Phase VI, for 1990, a

307


--- Page 322 ---
part of which has already been published by the Or- other international agencies but more often collected
ganization for Economic Cooperation and Develop- during World Bank staff missions.
ment (OECD). World Bank staff review the quality of national ac-
The ICP figures reported in Table 30 are prelimi- counts data and in some instances, through mission
nary and may be revised. The United Nations and its work or technical assistance, help adjust national se-
regional economic commissions, as well as other in- ries. Because of the sometimes limited capabilities of
ternational agencies, such as the EC, the OECD, and statistical offices and basic data problems, strict inter-
the World Bank, are working to improve the meth- national comparability cannot be achieved, especially
odology and to extend annual purchasing power in economic activities that are difficult to measure,
comparisons to all countries. However, exchange such as parallel market transactions, the informal sec-
rates remain the only generally available means of tor, or subsistence agriculture.
converting GNP from national currencies to U.S. GDP measures the total output of goods and ser-
dollars. vices for final use produced by residents and nonresi-
Average annual rate of inflation is measured by the dents, regardless of the allocation to domestic and
growth rate of the GDP implicit deflator for each of foreign claims. It is calculated without making deduc-
the periods shown. The GDP deflator is first calcu- tions for depreciation of "manmade" assets or deple-
lated by dividing, for each year of the period, the tion and degradation of natural resources. Although
value of GDP at current values by the value of GDP at SNA envisages estimates of GDP by industrial origin
constant values, both in national currency. The least- to be at producer prices, many countries still report
squares method is then used to calculate the growth such details at factor cost. International comparability
rate of the GDP deflator for the period. This measure of the estimates is affected by differing country prac-
of inflation, like any other, has limitations. For some tices in valuation systems for reporting value added
purposes, however, it is used as an indicator of infla- by production sectors. As a partial solution, GDP es-
tion because it is the most broadly based measure, timates are shown at purchaser values if the compo-
showing annual price movements for all goods and nents are on this basis, and such instances are foot-
services produced in an economy. noted. However, for a few countries in Tables 2 and 3,
Life expectancy at birth indicates the number of years GDP at purchaser values has been replaced by GDP
a newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of at factor cost.
mortality at the time of its birth were to stay the same The figures for GDP are U.S. dollar values con-
throughout its life. Data are World Bank estimates verted from domestic currencies using single-year of-
based on data from the U.N. Population Division, the ficial exchange rates. For a few countries where the
U.N. Statistical Office, and national statistical offices. official exchange rate does not reflect the rate effec-
Adult illiteracy is defined here as the proportion of tively applied to actual foreign exchange transactions,
the population over the age of fifteen who cannot, an alternative conversion factor is used (and reported
with understanding, read and write a short, simple in the World Tables). Note that this table does not use
statement on their everyday life. This is only one of the three-year averaging technique applied to GNP
three widely accepted definitions, and its application per capita in Table 1.
is subject to qualifiers in a number of countries. The Agriculture covers forestry, hunting, and fishing as
data are from the illiteracy estimates and projections well as agriculture. In developing countries with high
prepared in 1989 by UNESCO. More recent informa- levels of subsistence farming, much agricultural pro-
tion and a modified model have been used; therefore, duction is either not exchanged or not exchanged for
the data for 1990 are not strictly consistent with those money. This increases the difficulty of measuring the
published in last year's World Development contribution of agriculture to GDP and reduces the
Indicators. reliability and comparability of such numbers.
The summary measures for GNP per capita, life Industry comprises value added in mining; manu-
expectancy, and adult illiteracy in this table are facturing (also reported as a separate subgroup); con-
weighted by population. Those for average annual struction; and electricity, water, and gas. Value added
rates of inflation are weighted by the 1987 share of in all other branches of economic activity, including
country GDP valued in current U.S. dollars. imputed bank service charges, import duties, and
Tables 2 and 3. Growth and structure of production any statistical discrepancies noted by national com-
pilers, are categorized as services, etc.
Most of the definitions used are those of the U.N. Partially rebased, chain-linked 1987 series in do-
System of National Accounts (SNA), Series F, No. 2, mestic currencies, as explained at the beginning of
Revision 3. Estimates are obtained from national the technical notes, are used to compute the growth
sources, sometimes reaching the World Bank through rates in Table 2. The sectoral shares of GDP in Table 3
are based on current price series.

308


--- Page 323 ---
In calculating the summary measures for each indi- relation to the average produced annually in 1979-81
cator in Table 2, partially rebased constant 1987 U.s. (1979-81 = 100). The estimates are derived by divid-
dollar values for each economy are calculated for each ing the quantity of food production by the total popu-
year of the periods covered; the values are aggre- lation. For the index, food is defined as comprising
gated across countries for each year; and the least- nuts, pulses, fruits, cereals, vegetables, sugar cane,
squares procedure is used to compute the growth sugar beet, starchy roots, edible oils, livestock, and
rates. The average sectoral percentage shares in Table livestock products. Quantities of food production are
3 are computed from group aggregates of sectoral measured net of annual feed, seeds for use in agricul-
GDP in current U.S. dollars. ture, and food lost in processing and distribution.
Fish products are measured by the level of daily pro-
Table 4. Agriculture and food tein supply derived from the consumption of fish in
relation to total daily protein supply from all food.
The basic data for value added in agriculture are from This estimate indirectly highlights the relative impor-
the World Bank's national accounts series at current tance or weight of fish in total agriculture, especially
prices in national currencies. Value added in current since fish is not included in the index of food
prices in national currencies is converted to U.S. dol- production.
lars by applying the single-year conversion pro- The summary measures for fertilizer consumption
cedure, as described in the technical note for Tables 2 are weighted by total arable land area; the summary
and 3. measures for food production are weighted by
The figures for the remainder of this table are from population.
the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Cereal
imports are measured in grain equivalents and de- Table 5. Commercial energy
fined as comprising all cereals in the Standard Interna-
tional Trade Classification (SITC), Revision 2, Groups The data on energy are primarily from U.N. sources.
041-046. Food aid in cereals covers wheat and flour, They refer to commercial forms of primary energy
bulgur, rice, coarse grains, and the cereal component petroleum and natural gas liquids, natural gas, solid
of blended foods. The figures are not directly compa- fuels (coal, lignite, and so on), and primary electricity
rable because of reporting and timing differences. Ce- (nuclear, geothermal, and hydroelectric power)all
real imports are based on calendar-year data reported converted into oil equivalents. Figures on liquid fuel
by recipient countries, and food aid in cereals is based consumption include petroleum derivatives that have
on data for crop years reported by donors and inter- been consumed in nonenergy uses. For converting
national organizations, including the International primary electricity into oil equivalents, a notional
Wheat Council and the World Food Programme. Fur- thermal efficiency of 34 percent has been assumed.
thermore, food aid information from donors may not The use of firewood, dried animal excrement, and
correspond to actual receipts by beneficiaries during a other traditional fuels, although substantial in some
given period because of delays in transportation and developing countries, is not taken into account be-
recording or because aid is sometimes not reported to cause reliable and comprehensive data are not
the FAO or other relevant international organiza- available.
tions. Food aid imports may also not show up in Energy imports refers to the dollar value of energy
customs records. The time reference for food aid is importsSection 3 in the Standard International Trade
the crop year, July to June. Classification, Revision 1and are expressed as a per-
Fertilizer consumption measures the plant nutrients centage of earnings from merchandise exports. Be-
used in relation to arable land. Fertilizer products cause data on energy imports do not permit a distinc-
cover nitrogenous, potash, and phosphate fertilizers tion between petroleum imports for fuel and those
(which include ground rock phosphate). Arable land for use in the petrochemicals industry, these percent-
is defined as land under temporary crops (double- ages may overestimate the dependence on imported
cropped areas are counted once), temporary energy.
meadows for mowing or for pasture, land under mar- The summary measures of energy production and
ket or kitchen gardens, and land temporarily fallow consumption are computed by aggregating the re-
or lying idle, as well as land under permanent crops. spective volumes for each of the years covered by the
The time reference for fertilizer consumption is the periods and applying the least-squares growth rate
crop year, July to June. procedure. For energy consumption per capita,
Average growth rate of food production per capita has population weights are used to compute summary
been computed from the index of food production measures for the specified years.
per capita. The index relates to the average annual The summary measures of energy imports as a per-
growth rate of food produced per capita in 1979-91 in centage of merchandise exports are computed from

309


--- Page 324 ---
group aggregates for energy imports and merchan- manufacturing, with 1980 as the base year. To derive
dise exports in current dollars. this indicator, UNIDO data on gross output per em-
Table 6. Structure of manufacturing ployee in current prices are adjusted using the im-
plicit deflators for value added in manufacturing or in
The basic data for value added in manufacturing are industry, taken from the World Bank's national ac-
from the World Bank's national accounts series at cur- counts data files.
rent prices in national currencies. Value added in cur- To improve cross-country comparability, UNIDO
rent prices in national currencies is converted to U.S. has, where possible, standardized the coverage of es-
dollars by applying the single-year conversion pro- tablishments to those with five or more employees.
cedure, as described in the technical note for Tables 2 The concepts and definitions are in accordance
and 3. with the International Recommendations for Industrial
The data for distribution of manufacturing value added Statistics, published by the United Nations. Earnings
among industries are provided by the United Nations (wages and salaries) cover all remuneration to em-
Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), and ployees paid by the employer during the year. The
distribution calculations are from national currencies payments include (a) all regular and overtime cash
in current prices. payments and bonuses and cost of living allowances;
The classification of manufacturing industries is in (b) wages and salaries paid during vacation and sick
accordance with the U.N. International Standard Indus- leave; (c) taxes and social insurance contributions and
trial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC), Revi- the like, payable by the employees and deducted by
sion 2. Food, beverages, and tobacco comprise ISIC Divi- the employer; and (d) payments in kind.
sion 31; textiles and clothing, Division 32; machinery and The term "employees" in this table combines two
transport equipment, Major Groups 382-84; and chemi- categories defined by the U.N., regular employees
cals, Major Groups 351 and 352. Other comprises and persons engaged. Together these groups com-
wood and related products (Division 33), paper and prise regular employees, working proprietors, active
related products (Division 34), petroleum and related business partners, and unpaid family workers; they
products (Major Groups 353-56), basic metals and exclude homeworkers. The data refer to the average
mineral products (Divisions 36 and 37), fabricated number of employees working during the year.
metal products and professional goods (Major "Value added" is defined as the current value of
Groups 381 and 385), and other industries (Major gross output less the current cost of (a) materials,
Group 390). When data for textiles, machinery, or fuels, and other supplies consumed; (b) contract and
chemicals are shown as not available, they are also commission work done by others; (c) repair and
included in other. maintenance work done by others; and (d) goods
Summary measures given for value added in man- shipped in the same condition as received.
ufacturing are totals calculated by the aggregation The value of gross output is estimated on the basis
method noted at the beginning of the technical notes. of either production or shipments. On the production
basis it consists of (a) the value of all products of the
Table 7. Manufacturing earnings and output establishment; (b) the value of industrial services ren-
dered to others; (c) the value of goods shipped in the
Four indicators are showntwo relate to real earn- same condition as received; (d) the value of electricity
ings per employee, one to labor's share in total value sold; and (e) the net change in the value of work-in-
added generated, and one to labor productivity in the progress between the beginning and the end of the
manufacturing sector. The indicators are based on reference period. In the case of estimates compiled on
data from the United Nations Industrial Develop- a shipment basis, the net change between the begin-
ment Organization (UNIDO), although the deflators ning and the end of the reference period in the value
are from other sources, as explained below. of stocks of finished goods is also included.
Earnings per employee are in constant prices and are
derived by deflating nominal earnings per employee Tables 8 and 9. Growth of consumption and
by the country's consumer price index (CPI). The CPI investment; structure of demand
is from the International Monetary Fund's Interna-
tional Financial Statistics. GDP is defined in the note for Tables 2 and 3, but
Total earnings as a percentage of value added are de- here it is in purchaser values.
rived by dividing total earnings of employees by General government consumption includes all current
value added in current prices to show labor's share in expenditure for purchases of goods and services by
income generated in the manufacturing sector. Gross all levels of government. Capital expenditure on na-
output per employee is in constant prices and is pre- tional defense and security is regarded as consump-
sented as an index of overall labor productivity in tion expenditure.

310


--- Page 325 ---
Private consumption, etc. is the market value of all than who pays for consumption goods, and it im-
goods and services, including durable products (such proves international comparability because it is less
as cars, washing machines, and home computers) sensitive to differing national practices regarding the
purchased or received as income in kind by house- financing of health and education services.
holds and nonprofit institutions. It excludes pur- Cereals and tubers, a major subitem of food, comprise
chases of dwellings but includes imputed rent for the main staple products: rice, flour, bread, all other
owner-occupied dwellings (see the technical note for cereals and cereal preparations, potatoes, yams, and
Table 10 for details). In practice, it includes any statis- other tubers. For high-income OECD members, how-
tical discrepancy in the use of resources. At constant ever, this subitem does not include tubers. Gross
prices, it also includes the rescaling deviation from rents, fuel and power consist of actual and imputed
partial rebasing, which is explained at the beginning rents and repair and maintenance charges, as well as
of the technical notes. the subitem fuel and power (for heating, lighting, cook-
Gross domestic investment consists of outlays on ad- ing, air conditioning, and so forth). Note that this
ditions to the fixed assets of the economy plus net item excludes energy used for transport (rarely re-
changes in the level of inventories. ported to be more than 1 percent of total consurnp-
Gross domestic savings are calculated by deducting tion in low- and middle-income economies). As men-
total consumption from GDP. tioned, medical care and education include government
Exports of goods and nonfactor services represent the as well as private consumption expenditure. Transport
value of all goods and nonfactor services provided to and communication also include the purchase of auto-
the rest of the world; they include merchandise, mobiles, which are reported as a subitem. Other con-
freight, insurance, travel, and other nonfactor ser- sumption, the residual group, includes beverages and
vices. The value of factor services, such as investment tobacco, nondurable household goods and house-
income, interest, and labor income, is excluded. Cur- hold services, recreational services, and services (in-
rent transfers are also excluded. cluding meals) supplied by hotels and restaurants;
The resource balance is the difference between ex- carry-out food is recorded here. It also includes the
ports of goods and nonfactor services and imports of separately reported subitem other consumer durables,
goods and nonfactor services. comprising household appliances, furniture, floor
Partially rebased 1987 series in constant domestic coverings, recreational equipment, and watches and
currency units are used to compute the indicators in jewelry.
Table 8. Distribution of GDP in Table 9 is calculated Estimating the structure of consumption is one of
from national accounts series in current domestic cur- the weakest aspects of national accounting in low-
rency units. and middle-income economies. The structure is esti-
The summary measures are calculated by the mated through household expenditure surveys and
method explained in the note for Tables 2 and 3. similar survey techniques. It therefore shares any bias
Table 10. Structure of consumption inherent in the sample frame. Since, conceptually,
expenditure is not identical to consumption, other
Percentage shares of selected items in total household apparent discrepancies occur, and data for some
consumption expenditure are computed from details countries should be treated with caution. For exam-
of GDP (expenditure at national market prices) de- ple, some countries limit surveys to urban areas or,
fined in the U.N. System of National Accounts (SNA), even more narrowly, to capital cities. This tends to
mostly as collected from the International Compari- produce lower than average shares for food and high
shares for transport and communication, gross rents,
son Program (ICP) Phases IV (1980) and V (1985). For fuel and power, and other consumption. Controlled
countries not covered by the ICP, less detailed na- food prices and incomplete national accounting for
tional accounts estimates are included, where avail- subsistence activities also contribute to low food
able, to present a general idea of the broad structure shares.
of consumption. The data cover eighty-four countries
(including Bank staff estimates for China) and refer to Table 11. Central government expenditure
the most recent estimates, generally for 1980 and
1985. Where they refer to other years, the figures are
shown in italics. Consumption here refers to private The data on central government finance in Tables
(nongovernment) consumption as defined in the 11 and 12 are from the IMF's Government Finance Sta-
SNA and in the notes for Tables 2 and 3, 4, and 9, tistics Yearbook (1992) and IMF data files. The accounts
except that education and medical care comprise gov- of each country are reported using the system ofcom-
ernment as well as private outlays. This ICP concept mon definitions and classifications found in the IMF's
of "enhanced consumption" reflects who uses rather Manual on Government Finance Statistics (1986).

311


--- Page 326 ---
For complete and authoritative explanations of con- colleges; and of vocational, technical, and other train-
cepts, definitions, and data sources, see these IMF ing institutions. Also included is expenditure on the
sources. The commentary that follows is intended general administration and regulation of the educa-
mainly to place these data in the context of the broad tion system; on research into its objectives, organiza-
range of indicators reported in this edition. tion, administration, and methods; and on such sub-
The shares of total expenditure and current revenue by sidiary services as transport, school meals, and
category are calculated from series in national curren- school medical and dental services. Note that Table 10
cies. Because of differences in coverage of available provides an alternative measure of expenditure on
data, the individual components of central govern- education, private as well as public, relative to house-
ment expenditure and current revenue shown in hold consumption.
these tables may not be strictly comparable across all Health covers public expenditure on hospitals, ma-
economies. ternity and dental centers, and clinics with a major
Moreover, inadequate statistical coverage of state, medical component; on national health and medical
provincial, and local governments dictates the use of insurance schemes; and on family planning and pre-
central government data; this may seriously under- ventive care. Note that Table 10 also provides a mea-
state or distort the statistical portrayal of the alloca- sure of expenditure on medical care, private as well
tion of resources for various purposes, especially in as public, relative to household consumption.
countries where lower levels of government have Housing, amenities; social security and welfare cover
considerable autonomy and are responsible for many expenditure on housing (excluding interest subsidies,
economic and social services. In addition, "central which are usually classified with other) such as in-
government" can mean either of two accounting con- come-related schemes; on provision and support of
cepts: consolidated or budgetary. For most countries, housing and slum-clearance activities; on community
central government finance data have been consoli- development; and on sanitation services. These cate-
dated into one overall account, but for others only the gories also cover compensation for loss of income to
budgetary central government accounts are available. the sick and temporarily disabled; payments to the
Since all central government units are not always in- elderly, the permanently disabled, and the unem-
cluded in the budgetary accounts, the overall picture ployed; family, maternity, and child allowances; and
of central government activities is usually incom- the cost of welfare services, such as care of the aged,
plete. Countries reporting budgetary data are the disabled, and children. Many expenditures rele-
footnoted. vant to environmental defense, such as pollution
Consequently, the data presented, especially those abatement, water supply, sanitary affairs, and refuse
for education and health, are not comparable across collection, are included indistinguishably in this
countries. In many economies, private health and ed- category.
ucation services are substantial; in others, public ser- Economic services comprise expenditure associated
vices represent the major component of total expen- with the regulation, support, and more efficient oper-
diture but may be financed by lower levels of ation of business; economic development; redress of
government. Caution should therefore be exercised regional imbalances; and creation of employment op-
in using the data for cross-country comparisons. Cen- portunities. Research, trade promotion, geological
tral government expenditure comprises the expendi- surveys, and inspection and regulation of particular
ture by all government offices, departments, estab- industry groups are among the activities included.
lishments, and other bodies that are agencies or Other covers interest payments and items not in-
instruments of the central authority of a country. It cluded elsewhere; for a few economies it also in-
includes both current and capital (development) cludes amounts that could not be allocated to other
expenditure. components (or adjustments from accrual to cash
Defense comprises all expenditure, whether by de- accounts).
fense or other departments, on the maintenance of Total expenditure is more narrowly defined than the
military forces, including the purchase of military measure of general government consumption given
supplies and equipment, construction, recruiting, in Table 9 because it excludes consumption expendi-
and training. Also in this category are closely related ture by state and local governments. At the same
items such as military aid programs. Defense does time, central government expenditure is more
not include expenditure on public order and safety, broadly defined because it includes government's
which are classified separately. gross domestic investment and transfer payments.
Education comprises expenditure on the provision, Overall surplus/deficit is defined as current and capi-
management, inspection, and support of preprimary, tal revenue and official grants received, less total ex-
primary, and secondary schools; of universities and penditure and lending minus repayments.

312


--- Page 327 ---
Table 12. Central government current revenue and similar bank accounts that the issuer will readily
exchange for money. Where nonmonetary financial
Information on data sources and comparability is institutions are important issuers of quasi-monetary
given in the note for Table 11. Current revenue by liabilities, these are also included in the measure of
source is expressed as a percentage of total current monetary holdings.
revenue, which is the sum of tax revenue and nontax The growth rates for monetary holdings are calcu-
revenue and is calculated from national currencies. lated from year-end figures, while the average of the
Tax revenue comprises compulsory, unrequited, year-end figures for the specified year and the pre-
nonrepayable receipts for public purposes. It includes vious year is used for the ratio of monetary holdings
interest collected on tax arrears and penalties col- to GDP.
lected on nonpayment or late payment of taxes and is Nominal interest rates of banks, also from IFS, repre-
shown net of refunds and other corrective transac- sent the rates paid by commercial or similar banks to
tions. Taxes on income, profit, and capital gains are taxes holders of their quasi-monetary liabilities (deposit
levied on the actual or presumptive net income of rate) and charged by the banks on loans to prime
individuals, on the profits of enterprises, and on capi- customers (lending rate). The data are, however, of
tal gains, whether realized on land sales, securities, limited international comparability, partly because
or other assets. Intragovernmental payments are coverage and definitions vary and partly because
eliminated in consolidation. Social security contribu- countries differ in the scope available to banks for
tions include employers' and employees' social secu- adjusting interest rates to reflect market conditions.
rity contributions as well as those of self-employed Because interest rates (and growth rates for mone-
and unemployed persons. Domestic taxes on goods and tary holdings) are expressed in nominal terms, much
services include general sales and turnover or value of the variation among countries stems from differ-
added taxes, selective excises on goods, selective ences in inflation. For easy reference, the Table I indi-
taxes on services, taxes on the use of goods or prop- cator of recent inflation is repeated in this table.
erty, and profits of fiscal monopolies. Taxes on interna- Table 14. Growth of merchandise trade
tional trade and transactions include import duties, ex-
port duties, profits of export or import monopolies, The main data source for current trade values is the
exchange profits, and exchange taxes. Other taxes in- U.N. Commodity Trade (COMTRADE) data file sup-
clude employers' payroll or labor taxes, taxes on plemented by World Bank estimates. The statistics on
property, and taxes not allocable to other categories. merchandise trade are based on countries' customs
They may include negative values that are adjust- returns.
ments, for instance, for taxes collected on behalf of Merchandise exports and imports, with some excep-
state and local governments and not allocable to indi- tions, cover international movements of goods across
vidual tax categories. customs borders; trade in services is not included.
Non tax revenue comprises receipts that are not a Exports are valued f.o.b. (free on board) and imports
compulsory nonrepayable payment for public pur- c.i.f. (cost, insurance, and freight) unless otherwise
poses, such as fines, administrative fees, or entrepre- specified in the foregoing sources. These values are in
neurial income from government ownership of prop- current U. S. dollars.
erty. Proceeds of grants and borrowing, funds arising The growth rates of merchandise exports and im-
from the repayment of previous lending by govern- ports are based on constant price data, which are
ments, incurrence of liabilities, and proceeds from obtained from export or import value data as deflated
the sale of capital assets are not included. by the corresponding price index. The World Bank
Table 13. Money and interest rates uses its own price indexes, which are based on inter-
national prices for primary commodities, and unit
value indexes for manufactures. These price indexes
The data on monetary holdings are based on the are country-specific and disaggregated by broad com-
IMF's International Financial Statistics (IFS). Monetary modity groups. This ensures consistency between
holdings, broadly defined, comprise the monetary and data for a group of countries and those for individual
quasi-monetary liabilities of a country's financial in- countries. Such consistency will increase as the
stitutions to residents but not to the central govern- World Bank continues to improve its trade price in-
ment. For most countries, monetary holdings are the dexes for an increasing number of countries. These
sum of money (IFS line 34) and quasi money (IFS line growth rates can differ from those derived from na-
35). Money comprises the economy's means of pay- tional practices because national price indexes may
ment: currency outside banks and demand deposits. use different base years and weighting procedures
Quasi money comprises time and savings deposits from those used by the World Bank.

313


--- Page 328 ---
The terms of trade, or the net barter terms of trade, 27 and 28. Machinery and transport equipment are the
measure the relative movement of export prices commodities in SITC Section 7. Other manufactures
against that of import prices. Calculated as the ratio represent SITC Sections 5 through 9, less Section 7
of a country's index of average export prices to,its and Division 68. Textiles and clothing, representing
average import price index, this indicator shows SITC Divisions 65 and 84 (textiles, yarns, fabrics,
changes over a base year in the level of export prices made-up articles, and related products and clothing),
as a percentage of import prices. The terms of trade are a subgroup of other manufactures.
index numbers are shown for 1985 and 1991, where The summary measures in Table 15 are weighted
1987 = 100. The price indexes are from the source by total merchandise imports of individual countries
cited above for the growth rates of exports and in current U.S. dollars and those in Table 16 by total
imports. merchandise exports of individual countries in cur-
The summary measures for the growth rates are rent U.S. dollars. (See the technical note for Table 14.)
calculated by aggregating the 1987 constant U.S. dol-
lar price series for each year and then applying the Table 17. OECD imports of manufactured goods:
least-squares growth rate procedure for the periods origin and composition
shown.

Tables 15 and 16. Structure of merchandise imports The data are from the United Nations, reported by
and exports high-income OECD economies, which are the OECD
members excluding Greece, Portugal, and Turkey.
The shares in these tables are derived from trade The table reports the value of imports of man ufac-
values in current dollars reported in the U.N. trade tures of high-income OECD countries by the economy
data system and the U.N. 's Yearbook of International of origin, and the composition of such imports by
Trade Statistics, supplemented by World Bank major manufactured product groups. These data are
estimates. based on the U.N. COMTRADE databaseRevision
Merchandise exports and imports are defined in the 1, SITC for 1970, and Revision 2 SITC for 1991.
technical note for Table 14. The table replaces one in past editions on the origin
The categorization of exports and imports follows and destination of manufactured exports, which was
the Standard International Trade Classification (SITC), based on exports reported by individual economies.
Series M, No. 34, Revision 1. For some countries, Since there was a lag of several years in reporting by
data for certain commodity categories are unavailable many developing economies, estimates based on var-
and the full breakdown cannot be shown. ious sources were used to fill the gaps. Until these
In Table 15, food commodities are those in SITC estimates can be improved, the current table, based
Sections 0, 1, and 4 and Division 22 (food and live on up-to-date and consistent but less comprehensive
animals, beverages and tobacco, animal and vegeta- data, is included instead. Manufactured imports of
ble oils and fats, oilseeds, oil nuts and oil kernels). the predominant markets from individual economies
Fuels are the commodities in SITC Section 3 (mineral are the best available proxy of the magnitude and
fuels, and lubricants and related materials). Other pri- composition of the manufactured exports of these
mary commodities comprise SITC Section 2 (inedible economies to all destinations taken together.
crude materials, except fuels), less Division 22 (oil- Manufactured goods are the commodities in the Stan-
seeds, oilnuts, and oil kernels) and Division 68 (non- dard International Trade Classification (SITC), Revision
ferrous metals). Machinery and transport equipment are 1, Sections 5 through 9 (chemical and related prod-
the commodities in SITC Section 7. Other manufac- ucts, basic manufactures, manufactured articles, ma-
tures, calculated residually from the total value of chinery and transport equipment, and other manu-
manufactured imports, represent SITC Sections 5 factured articles and goods not elsewhere classified),
through 9, less Section 7 and Division 68. excluding Division 68 (nonferrous metals). This defi-
In Table 16, fuels, minerals, and metals are the com- nition is somewhat broader than the one used to de-
modities in SITC Section 3 (mineral fuels, and lubri- fine exporters of manufactures.
cants and related materials), Divisions 27 and 28 The major manufactured product groups reported
(crude fertilizers and crude minerals, excluding coal; are defined as follows: textiles and clothing (SITC Sec-
petroleum and precious stones, and metalliferous tions 65 and 84), chemicals (SITC Section 5), electrical
ores and metal scrap), and Division 68 (nonferrous machinery and electronics (SITC Section 72), transport
metals). Other primary commodities comprise SITC Sec- equipment (SITC Section 73), and others, defined as the
tions 0, 1, 2, and 4 (food and live animals, beverages residual. SITC Revision 1 data are used for the year
and tobacco, inedible crude materials, except fuels, 1970, whereas the equivalent data in Revision 2 are
and animal and vegetable oils and fats), less Divisions used for the year 1991.

314


--- Page 329 ---
Table 18. Balance of payments and reserves The summary measures are computed from group
aggregates for gross international reserves and total
The statistics for this table are mostly as reported by imports of goods and services in current dollars.
the IMF but do include recent estimates by World
Bank staff and, in rare instances, the Bank's own cov- Table 19. Official development assistance from
erage or classification adjustments to enhance inter- OECD and OPEC members
national comparability. Values in this table are in U.S.
dollars converted at current exchange rates. Official development assistance (ODA) consists of net
The current account balance after official transfers is the disbursements of loans and grants made on conces-
difference between (a) exports of goods and services sional financial terms by official agencies of the mem-
(factor and nonfactor) as well as inflows of unre- bers of the Development Assistance Committee
quited transfers (private and official) and (b) imports (DAC) of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
of goods and services as well as all unrequited trans- and Development (OECD) and members of the Or-
fers to the rest of the world. ganization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)
The current account balance before official transfers is to promote economic development and welfare. Al-
the current account balance that treats net official un- though this definition is meant to exclude purely mili-
requited transfers as akin to official capital move- tary assistance, the borderline is sometimes blurred;
ments. The difference between the two balance of the definition used by the country of origin usually
payments measures is essentially foreign aid in the prevails. ODA also includes the value of technical
form of grants, technical assistance, and food aid, cooperation and assistance. All data shown are sup-
which, for most developing countries, tends to make plied by the OECD, and all U.S. dollar values are
current account deficits smaller than the financing converted at official exchange rates.
requirement. Total net flows are net disbursements to developing
Net workers' remittances cover payments and re- countries and multilateral institutions. The disburse-
ceipts of income by migrants who are employed or ments to multilateral institutions are now reported
expect to be employed for more than a year in their for all DAC members on the basis of the date of issue
new economy, where they are considered residents. of notes; some DAC members previously reported on
These remittances are classified as private unrequited the basis of the date of encashment.
transfers and are included in the balance of payments The nominal values shown in the summary for
current account balance, whereas those derived from ODA from high-income OECD countries were con-
shorter-term stays are included in services as labor verted at 1987 prices using the dollar GDP deflator.
income. The distinction accords with internationally This deflator is based on price increases in OECD
agreed guidelines, but many developing countries countries (excluding Greece, Portugal, and Turkey)
classify workers' remittances as a factor income re- measured in dollars. It takes into account the parity
ceipt (hence, a component of GNP). The World Bank changes between the dollar and national currencies.
adheres to international guidelines in defining GNP For example, when the dollar depreciates, price
and, therefore, may differ from national practices. changes measured in national currencies have to be
Gross international reserves comprise holdings of adjusted upward by the amount of the depreciation
monetary gold, special drawing rights (SDRs), the to obtain price changes in dollars.
reserve position of members in the IMF, and holdings The table, in addition to showing totals for OPEC,
of foreign exchange under the control of monetary shows totals for the Organization of Arab Petroleum
authorities. The data on holdings of international re- Exporting Countries (OAPEC). The donor members
serves are from IMF data files. The gold component of, OAPEC are Algeria, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Qatar,
of these reserves is valued throughout at year-end Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates. ODA data
(December 31) London prices: that is, $37.37 an for OPEC and OAPEC are also obtained from the
ounce in 1970 and $353.60 an ounce in 1991. The re- OECD.
serve levels for 1970 and 1991 refer to the end of the
year indicated and are in current U.S. dollars at pre- Table 20. Official development assistance: receipts
vailing exchange rates. Because of differences in the
definition of international reserves, in the valuation Net disbursements of ODA from all sources consist of
of gold, and in reserve management practices, the loans and grants made on concessional financial
levels of reserve holdings published in national terms by all bilateral official agencies and multilateral
sources do not have strictly comparable significance. sources to promote economic development and wel-
Reserve holdings at the end of 1991 are also ex- fare. They include the value of technical cooperation
pressed in terms of the number of months of imports and assistance. The disbursements shown in this ta-
of goods and services they could pay for. ble are not strictly comparable with those shown in

315


--- Page 330 ---
Table 19 since the receipts are from all sources; dis- long-term debt, use of IMF credit, and short-term
bursements in Table 19 refer only to those made by debt.
high-income members of the OECD and members of Total arrears on LDOD denotes principal and interest
OPEC. Net disbursements equal gross disbursements due but not paid.
less payments to the originators of aid for amortiza- Present value is the discounted value of the future
tion of past aid receipts. Net disbursements of ODA debt service payments.
are shown per capita and as a percentage of GNP. Table 22. Flow of public and private external capital
The summary measures of per capita ODA are
computed from group aggregates for population and Data on disbursements, repayment of principal (am-
for ODA. Summary measures for ODA as a percent- ortization), and payment of interest are for public,
age of GNP are computed from group totals for ODA publicly guaranteed, and private nonguaranteed
and for GNP in current U.S. dollars. long-term loans.
Table 21. Total external debt Disbursements are drawings on long-term loan com-
The data on debt in this and successive tables are mitments during the year specified.
from the World Bank Debtor Reporting System, sup- Repayments of principal are actual amount of princi-
plemented by World Bank estimates. That system is pal (amortization) paid in foreign currency, goods, or
concerned solely with developing economies and services in the year specified.
does not collect data on external debt for other groups Interest payments are actual amounts of interest paid
of borrowers or from economies that are not members in foreign currency, goods, or services in the year
of the World Bank. The dollar figures on debt shown specified.
in Tables 21 through 25 are in U.S. dollars converted Table 23. Aggregate net resource flows and net
at official exchange rates. transfers
The data on debt include private nonguaranteed
debt reported by twenty-seven developing countries Net flows on long-term debt are disbursements less the
and complete or partial estimates for an additional repayment of principal on public, publicly guaran-
twenty others that do not report but for which this teed, and private nonguaranteed long-term debt. of-
type of debt is known to be significant. ficial grants are transfers made by an official agency in
Public loans are external obligations of public cash or in kind in respect of which no legal debt is
debtors, including the national government, its agen- incurred by the recipient. Data on official grants ex-
cies, and autonomous public bodies. Publicly guaran- clude grants for technical assistance.
teed loans are external obligations of private debtors Net foreign direct investment is defined as investment
that are guaranteed for repayment by a public entity. that is made to acquire a lasting interest (usually 10
These two categories are aggregated in the tables. percent of the voting stock) in an enterprise operating
Private nonguaranteed loans are external obligations of in a country other than that of the investor (defined
private debtors that are not guaranteed for repay- according to residency), the investor's purpose being
ment by a public entity. an effective voice in the management of the enter-
Use of IMF credit denotes repurchase obligations to prise. Aggregate net resource flows are the sum of net
the IMF for all uses of IMF resources, excluding those flows on long-term debt (excluding use of IMF
resulting from drawings in the reserve tranche. It is credit), plus official grants (excluding technical assis-
shown for the end of the year specified. It comprises tance) and net foreign direct investment. Aggregate
purchases outstanding under the credit tranches, in- net transfers are equal to aggregate net resource flows
cluding enlarged access resources, and all special fa- minus interest payments on long-term loans and re-
cilities (the buffer stock, compensatory financing, ex- mittance of all profits.
tended fund, and oil facilities), Trust Fund loans, and
operations under the enhanced structural adjustment Table 24. Total external debt ratios
facilities. Use of IMF credit outstanding at year-end (a
stock) is converted to U.S. dollars at the dollar-SDR Total external debt as a percentage of exports of goods and
exchange rate in effect at year-end. services represents public, publicly guaranteed, pri-
Short-term debt is debt with an original maturity of vate nonguaranteed long-term debt, use of IMF
one year or less. Available data permit no distinctions credit, and short-term debt drawn at year-end, net of
between public and private nonguaranteed short- repayments of principal and write-off s. Throughout
term debt. this table, goods and services include workers' remit-
Total external debt is defined here as the sum of pub- tances. For estimating total external debt as a percentage
lic, publicly guaranteed, and private nonguaranteed of GNP, the debt figures are converted into U.S. do!-

316


--- Page 331 ---
lars from currencies of repayment at end-of-year offi- Table 26. Population growth and projections
cial exchange rates. GNP is converted from national
currencies to U.S. dollars by applying the conversion Population growth rates are period averages calcu-
procedure described in the technical note for Tables 2 lated from midyear populations.
and 3. Population estimates for mid-1991 and estimates of
Total debt service as a percentage of goods and services is fertility and mortality are made by the World Bank
the sum of principal repayments and interest pay- from data provided by the U.N. Population Division,
ments on total external debt (as defined in the note the U.N. Statistical Office, and country statistical of-
for Table 21). It is one of several conventional mea- fices. Estimates take into account the results of the
sures used to assess a country's ability to service latest population censuses, which in some cases are
debt. neither recent nor accurate. Note that refugees not
Interest payments as a percentage of exports of goods and permanently settled in the country of asylum are gen-
services are actual payments made on total external erally considered to be part of the population of their
debt. country of origin.
The summary measures are weighted by exports of The projections of population for 2000, 2025, and
goods and services in current dollars and by GNP in the year in which the population will eventually be-
current dollars, respectively. come stationary (see definition below) are made for
Concessional debt as a percentage of total external debt each economy separately. Information on total popu-
conveys information about the borrower's receipt of lation by age and sex, fertility, mortality, and interna-
aid from official lenders at concessional terms as de- tional migration is projected on the basis of gener-
fined by the DAC, that is, loans with an original grant alized assumptions until the population becomes
element of 25 percent or more. stationary.
Multilateral debt as a percentage of total external debt A stationary population is one in which age- and
conveys information about the borrower's receipt of sex-specific mortality rates have not changed over a
aid from the World Bank, regional development long period, and during which fertility rates have re-
banks, and other multilateral and intergovernmental mained at replacement level; that is, when the net
agencies. Excluded are loans from funds adminis- reproduction rate (defined in the note for Table 27)
tered by an international organization on behalf of a equals 1. In such a population, the birth rate is con-
single donor government. stant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is
Table 25. Terms of external public borrowing constant, and the growth rate is zero.
Population projections are made age cohort by age
cohort. Mortality, fertility, and migration are pro-
Commitments refer to the public and publicly guaran- jected separately, and the results are applied iter-
teed loans for which contracts were signed in the year atively to the 1990 base-year age structure. For the
specified. They are reported in currencies of repay- projection period 1990 to 2005, the changes in mortal-
ment and converted into U.S. dollars at average an- ity are country specific: increments in life expectancy
nual official exchange rates. and decrements in infant mortality are based on pre-
Figures for interest rates, maturities, and grace periods vious trends for each country. When female second-
are averages weighted by the amounts of the loans. ary school enrollment is high, mortality is assumed to
Interest is the major charge levied on a loan and is decline more quickly. Infant mortality is projected
usually computed on the amount of principal drawn separately from adult mortality. Note that the data
and outstanding. The maturity of a loan is the inter- reflect the potentially significant impact of the human
val between the agreement date, when a loan agree- immunodeficiency virus (HIV) epidemic.
ment is signed or bonds are issued, and the date of Projected fertility rates are also based on previous
final repayment of principal. The grace period is the trends. For countries in which fertility has started to
interval between the agreement date and the date of decline (termed "fertility transition"), this trend is
the first repayment of principal. assumed to continue. It has been observed that no
Public loans with variable interest rates, as a percentage country where the population has a life expectancy of
of public debt refer to interest rates that float with less than 50 years has experienced a fertility decline;
movements in a key market rate; for example, the for these countries, fertility transition is delayed, and
London interbank offered rate (LIBOR) or the U.S. the average decline of the group of countries in fertil-
prime rate. This column shows the borrower's expo- ity transition is applied. Countries with below-
sure to changes in international interest rates. replacement fertility are assumed to have constant
by the amounts of the loans.The summary measures in this table are weightedtotal fertility rates until 1995-2000 and to regain re-
placement level by 2030.

317


--- Page 332 ---
International migration rates are based on past and derstate contraceptive prevalence because they do
present trends in migration flows and migration p01- not measure use of methods such as rhythm, with-
icy. Among the sources consulted are estimates and drawal, or abstinence, nor use of contraceptives not
projections made by national statistical offices, inter- obtained through the official family planning pro-
national agencies, and research institutions. Because gram. The data refer to rates prevailing in a variety of
of the uncertainty of future migration trends, it is years, generally not more than two years before the
assumed in the projections that net migration rates year specified in the table.
will reach zero by 2025. All summary measures are country data weighted
The estimates of the size of the stationary popula- by each country's share in the aggregate population.
tion are very long-term projections. They are in-
cluded only to show the implications of recent fertil- Table 28. Health and nutrition
ity and mortality trends on the basis of generalized
assumptions. A fuller description of the methods and The estimates of population per physician and per nurs-
assumptions used to calculate the estimates is con- ing person are derived from World Health Organiza-
tained in World Population Projections, 1992-93 Edition. tion (WHO) data and are supplemented by data ob-
tained directly by the World Bank from national
Table 27. Demography and fertility sources. The data refer to a variety of years, generally
no more than two years before the year specified.
The crude birth rate and crude death rate indicate re- Nursing persons include auxiliary nurses, as well as
spectively the number of live births and deaths occur- paraprofessional personnel such as traditional birth
ring per thousand population in a year. They come attendants. The inclusion of auxiliary and paraprofes-
from the sources mentioned in the note to Table 26. sional personnel provides more realistic estimates of
Women of childbearing age are those in the 15-49 age- available nursing care. Because definitions of doctors
group. and nursing personnel varyand because the data
The total fertility rate represents the number of chil- shown are for a variety of yearsthe data for these
dren that would be born to a woman if she were to two indicators are not strictly comparable across
live to the end of her childbearing years and bear countries.
children at each age in accordance with prevailing Data on births attended by health staff show the per-
age-specific fertility rates. The rates given are from centage of births recorded where a recognized health
the sources mentioned in the note for Table 26. service worker was in attendance. The data are from
The net reproduction rate (NRR), which measures the WHO, supplemented by UNICEF data. They are
number of daughters a newborn girl will bear during based on national sources, derived mostly from off i-
her lifetime, assuming fixed age-specific fertility and cial community reports and hospital records; some
mortality rates, reflects the extent to which a cohort reflect only births in hospitals and other medical in-
of newborn girls will reproduce themselves. An NRR stitutions. Sometimes smaller private and rural hos-
of 1 indicates that fertility is at replacement level: at pitals are excluded, and sometimes even relatively
this rate women will bear, on average, only enough primitive local facilities are included. The coverage is
daughters to replace themselves in the population. therefore not always comprehensive, and the figures
As with the size of the stationary population, the should be treated with extreme caution.
assumed year of reaching replacement-level fertility Babies with low birth weight are children born weigh-
is speculative and should not be regarded as a ing less than 2,500 grams. Low birth weight is fre-
prediction. quently associated with maternal malnutrition. It
Married women of childbearing age using contraception tends to raise the risk of infant mortality and lead to
are women who are practicing, or whose husbands poor growth in infancy and childhood, thus increas-
are practicing, any form of contraception. Contracep- ing the incidence of other forms of retarded develop-
tive usage is generally measured for women age 15 to ment. The figures are derived from both WHO and
49. A few countries use measures relating to other UNICEF sources and are based on national data. The
age groups, especially 15 to 44. data are not strictly comparable across countries since
Data are mainly derived from demographic and they are compiled from a combination of surveys and
health surveys, contraceptive prevalence surveys, administrative records that may not have representa-
World Bank country data, and Mauldin and Segal's tive national coverage.
article "Prevalence of Contraceptive Use: Trends and The infant mortality rate is the number of infants
Issues" in volume 19 of Studies in Family Planning who die before reaching one year of age, per thou-
(1988). For a few countries for which no survey data sand live births in a given year. The data are from the
are available, and for several African countries, pro- U.N. publication Mortality of Children under Age 5:
gram statistics are used. Program statistics may un- Projections, 1950-2025 as well as from the World Bank.

318


--- Page 333 ---
The years of life lost (per 1,000 population) conveys the varies among countries. The youth populationthat
burden of mortality in absolute terms. It is composed is, 20 to 24 yearshas been adopted by UNESCO as
of the sum of the years lost to premature death per the denominator since it represents an average ter-
1,000 population. Years of life lost at age x are mea- tiary level cohort even though people above and be-
sured by subtracting the remaining expected years of low this age group may be registered in tertiary
life, given a life expectancy at birth fixed at 80 years institutions.
for men and 82.5 for women. This indicator depends Primary net enrollment is the percentage of school-
on the effect of three variables: the age structure of age children who are enrolled in school. Unlike gross
the population, the overall rate of mortality, and the enrollment, the net ratios correspond to the country's
age structure of mortality. primary-school age group. This indicator gives a
Child malnutrition measures the percentage of chil- much clearer idea of how many children in the age
dren under five with a deficiency or an excess of nu- group are actually enrolled in school without the
trients that interfere with their health and genetic po- numbers being inflated by over- or under-age
tential for growth. Methods of assessment vary, but children.
the most commonly used are the following: less than The primary pupil-teacher ratio is the number of pu-
80 percent of the standard weight for age; less than pils enrolled in school in a country, divided by the
minus two standard deviation from the 50th percen- number of teachers in the education system.
tile of the weight for age reference population; and The summary measures in this table are country
the Gomez scale of malnutrition. Note that for a few enrollment rates weighted by each country's share in
countries the figures are for children of three or four the aggregate population.
years of age and younger. The summary measures in Table 30. Income distribution and PPC estimates of
this table are country data weighted by each coun-
try's share in the aggregate population. GDP

Table 29. Education The first six columns of the table report distribution
of income or expenditure accruing to percentile
The data in this table refer to a variety of years, gener- groups of households ranked by total household in-
ally not more than two years distant from those spe- come, per capita income, or expenditure. The last
cified; however, figures for females sometimes refer four columns contain estimates of per capita GDP
to a year earlier than that for overall totals. The data based on purchasing power of currencies (PPCs)
are mostly from UNESCO. rather than exchange rates (see below for the defini-
Primary school enrollment data are estimates of tion of PPC).
children of all ages enrolled in primary school. Fig- The first six columns of the table give the shares of
ures are expressed as the ratio of pupils to the popu- population quintiles and the top decile in total in-
lation of school-age children. Although many coun- come or consumption expenditure for 36 low- and
tries consider primary school age to be 6 to 11 years, middle-income countries, and 20 high-income coun-
others do not. For some countries with universal pri- tries. The rest of this note refers to the former set of
mary education, the gross enrollment ratios may ex- countries. The data sets for these countries refer to
ceed 100 percent because some pupils are younger or different years between 1981 and 1991, and are drawn
older than the country's standard primary school from nationally representative household surveys.
age. The data sets have been compiled from two main
The data on secondary school enrollment are calcu- sources: government statistical agencies (often using
lated in the same manner, but again the definition of published reports), and the World Bank (mostly data
secondary school age differs among countries. It is originating from the Living Standards Measurement
most commonly considered to be 12 to 17 years. Late Study). In cases where the original unit record data
entry of more mature students as well as repetition from the household survey were available, these
and the phenomenon of "bunching" in final grades have been used to calculate directly the income (or
can influence these ratios. expenditure) shares of different quantiles; otherwise,
The tertiary enrollment ratio is calculated by divid- the latter have been estimated from the best available
ing the number of pupils enrolled in all post-second- grouped data. For further details on both the data
ary schools and universities by the population in the and the estimation methodology, see Chen, Datt, and
20-24 age group. Pupils attending vocational schools, Ravallion, 1993.
adult education programs, two-year community col- There are several comparability problems across
leges, and distance education centers (primarily cor- countries in the underlying household surveys,
respondence courses) are included. The distribution though these problems are diminishing over time as
of pupils across these different types of institutions survey methodologies are both improving and be-

319


--- Page 334 ---
coming more standardized, particularly under the and expressed in 1991 international dollars, are pre-
initiatives of the United Nations (under the House- sented in the tenth column. The adjustments do not
hold Survey Capability Program) and the World Bank take account of changes in the terms of trade. The
(under the Living Standard Measurement Study and observed figures should be used wherever available.
the Social Dimensions of Adjustment Project for Sub- Where both observed and regression numbers are
Saharan Africa). The data presented here should available a comparison between the two indicates the
nevertheless be interpreted with caution. In particu- range of errors associated with the regression esti-
lar, the following three sources of noncomparability mates. For countries that do not have PPC-based ob-
ought to be noted. First, the surveys differ in using served data, there is no alternative to the use of re-
income or consumption expenditure as the living gression estimates, but the extent and direction of
standard indicator. For 17 of the 36 low- and middle- errors cannot be inferred in these cases.
income countries, the data refer to consumption ex- ICP recasts traditional national accounts through
penditure. Typically, income is more unequally dis- special price collections and disaggregation of GDP
tributed than consumption. Second, the surveys dif- by expenditure components. ICP details are prepared
fer in using the household or the individual as their by national statistical offices, and the results are coor-
unit of observation; in the former case, the quantiles dinated by the U.N. Statistical Division (UNSTAT)
refer to percentage of households, rather than per- with support from other international agencies, par-
centage of persons. Third, the surveys also differ ticularly the Statistical Office of the European Com-
according to whether the units of observation are munities (Eurostat) and the Organization for Eco-
ranked by household income (or consumption) or by nomic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The
per capita income (or consumption). The footnotes to World Bank, the Economic Commission for Europe,
the table identify these differences for each country. and the Economic and Social Commission for Asia
The 1987 indexed figures on PPC-based GDP per and the Pacific (ESCAP) also contribute to this exer-
capita (US=100) are presented in the seventh col- cise. A total of sixty-four countries participated in ICP
umn. They include: (i) results of the International Phase V. For one country (Nepal), total GDP data
Comparison Programme (ICP) Phase VI for 1990 for were not available, and comparisons were made for
OECD countries extrapolated backward to 1987; (ii) consumption only. Luxembourg and Swaziland are
results of ICP Phase V for 1985 for non-OECD coun- the only two economies with populations under I
tries extrapolated to 1987; (iii) the latest available re- million that have participated in ICP; their 1987 re-
sults from either Phase IV for 1980 or Phase III for sults, as a percentage of the U.S. results, are 83.1 and
1975 extrapolated to 1987 for countries that partici- 15.0, respectively. The figures given here are subject
pated in the earlier phases only; (iv) World Bank esti- to change and should be regarded as indicative only.
mates for the economies of the Former Soviet Union The next round of ICP surveys for 1993 is expected
(FSU) based on partial and preliminary ICP data for to cover more than eighty countries, including China
the former U.S.S.R. for 1990 extrapolated to 1987; (v) and several FSU economies.
a World Bank estimate for China; and (vi) ICP esti- The "international dollar" (1$) has the same pur-
mates obtained by regression for the remaining coun- chasing power over total GDP as the U.S. dollar in a
tries that did not participate in any of the phases. given year, but purchasing power over subaggregates
Economies whose 1987 figures are extrapolated from is determined by average international prices at that
another year or imputed by regression are footnoted level rather than by U.S. relative prices. These dollar
accordingly. values, which are different from the dollar values of
The blend of extrapolated and regression-based GNP or GDP shown in Tables 1 and 3 (see the techni-
1987 figures underlying the seventh column is extrap- cal notes for these tables), are obtained by special
olated to 1991 using Bank estimates of real per capita conversion factors designed to equalize the purchas-
GDP growth rates and expressed as an index ing powers of currencies in the respective countries.
(US = 100) in the eighth column. For countries that This conversion factor, the Purchasing Power of Cur-
have ever participated in ICP, as well as for China and rencies (PPC), is defined as the number of units of a
the economies of the FSU, the latest available PPC- country's currency required to buy the same amounts
based values are extrapolated to 1991 by Bank esti- of goods and services in the domestic market as one
mates of growth rates and converted to current "in- dollar would buy in the United States. The computa-
ternational dollars" by scaling all results up by the tion involves deriving implicit quantities from na-
U.S. inflation rates; these are presented in the ninth tional accounts expenditure data and specially col-
column. Footnotes indicate which year PPC-based lected price data and then revaluing the implicit
data were extrapolated. Regression estimates of all quantities in each country at a single set of average
countries except FSU economies, whether or not they prices. The average price index thus equalizes dollar
participated in ICP, extrapolated from 1987 to 1991 prices in every country so that cross-country compar-

320


--- Page 335 ---
isons of GDP based on them reflect differences in equation is first obtained by fitting the following re-
quantities of goods and services free of price-level gression to 1987 data:
differentials. This procedure is designed to bring ln (r) = .5603 ln (ATLAS) + .3136 In (ENROL) + .5706;
cross-country comparisons in line with cross-time (.0304) (.0574) (.1734)
real value comparisons that are based on constant RMSE = .2324; Adj.R-Sq = .95; N = 78.
price series. where all variables and estimated values are ex-
The ICP figures presented here are the results of a pressed as US = 100;
two-step exercise. Countries within a region or group r = ICP estimates of per capita GDP converted to
such as the OECD are first compared using their own U.S. dollars by PPC, the array of r consisting of ex-
group average prices. Next, since group average trapolations of the most recent actual ICP values
prices may differ from each other, making the coun- available for countries that ever participated in ICP;
tries in different groups not comparable, the group
prices are adjusted to make them comparable at the ATLAS = per capita GNP estimated by the Atlas
world level. The adjustments, done by UNSTAT and method;
Eurostat, are based on price differentials observed in ENROL = secondary school enrollment ratio; and
a network of "link" countries representing each RMSE = root mean squared error.
group. However, the linking is done in a manner that
retains in the world comparison the relative levels of ATLAS and ENROL are used as rough proxies of
GDP observed in the group comparisons, called intercountry wage differentials for unskilled and
"fixity." skilled human capital, respectively. Following Isen-
The two-step process was adopted because the rel- man (see Paul Isenman, "Inter-Country Compari-
ative GDP levels and rankings of two countries may sons of 'Real' (PPP) Incomes: Revised Estimates and
change when more countries are brought into the Unresolved Questions," in World Development, 1980,
comparison. It was felt that this should not be al- vol. 8, pp.61-72), the rationale adopted here is that
lowed to happen within geographic regions; that is, ICP and conventional estimates of GDP differ mainly
that the relationship of, say, Ghana and Senegal because wage differences persist among nations due
should not be affected by the prices prevailing in the to constraints on the international mobility of labor. A
United States. Thus overall GDP per capita levels are technical paper providing fuller explanation is avail-
calculated at "regional" prices and then linked to- able on request (Sultan Ahmad, "Regression Esti-
gether. The linking is done by revaluing GDPs of all mates of Per Capita GDP Based on Purchasing Power
the countries at average "world" prices and reallocat- Parities," Working Paper Series 956, International
ing the new regional totals on the basis of each coun- Economics Department, World Bank, 1992. For fur-
try's share in the original comparison. ther details on ICP procedures, readers may consult
Such a method does not permit the comparison of the ICP Phase IV report, World Comparisons of Purchas-
more detailed quantities (such as food consumption). ing Power and Real Product for 1980 (New York: United
Hence these subaggregates and more detailed expen- Nations, 1986).
diture categories are calculated using world prices.
These quantities are indeed comparable interna- Table 31. Urbanization
tionally, but they do not add up to the indicated
GDPs because they are calculated at a different set of Data on urban population and agglomeration in large
prices. cities are from the U.N. 's World Urbanization Prospects,
Some countries belong to several regional groups. supplemented by data from the World Bank. The
A few of the groups have priority; others are equal. growth rates of urban population are calculated from
Thus fixity is always maintained between members of the World Bank's population estimates; the estimates
the European Communities, even within the OECD of urban population shares are calculated from both
and world comparison. For Austria and Finland, sources just cited.
however, the bilateral relationship that prevails Because the estimates in this table are based on
within the OECD comparison is also the one used different national definitions of what is urban, cross-
within the global comparison. But a significantly dif- country comparisons should be made with caution.
ferent relationship (based on Central European The summary measures for urban population as a
prices) prevails in the comparison within that group, percentage of total population are calculated from
and this is the relationship presented in the separate country percentages weighted by each country's
publication of the European comparison. share in the aggregate population; the other sum-
To derive ICP-based 1987 figures for countries that mary measures in this table are weighted in the same
are yet to participate in any ICP survey, an estimating fashion, using urban population.

321


--- Page 336 ---
Table 32. Women in development Maternal mortality refers to the number of female
deaths that occur during childbirth per 100,000 live
This table provides some basic indicators disaggre- births. Because deaths during childbirth are defined
gated to show differences between the sexes that il- more widely in some countries to include complica-
lustrate the condition of women in society. The mea- tions of pregnancy or the period after childbirth, or of
sures reflect the demographic status of women and abortion, and because many pregnant women die
their access to health and education services. Statisti- from lack of suitable health care, maternal mortality is
cal anomalies become even more apparent when so- difficult to measure consistently and reliably across
cial indicators are analyzed by gender, because re- countries. The data in these two series are drawn
porting systems are often weak in areas related from diverse national sources and collected by the
specifically to women. Indicators drawn from cen- World Health Organization (WHO), although many
suses and surveys, such as those on population, tend national administrative systems are weak and do not
to be about as reliable for women as for men; but record vital events in a systematic way. The data are
indicators based largely on administrative records, derived mostly from official community reports and
such as maternal and infant mortality, are less reli- hospital records, and some reflect only deaths in hos-
able. More resources are now being devoted to de- pitals and other medical institutions. Sometimes
velop better information on these topics, but the re- smaller private and rural hospitals are excluded, and
liability of data, even in the series shown, still varies sometimes even relatively primitive local facilities are
significantly. included. The coverage is therefore not always com-
The under-5 mortality rate shows the probability of a prehensive, and the figures should be treated with
newborn baby dying before reaching age 5. The rates extreme caution.
are derived from life tables based on estimated cur- Clearly, many maternal deaths go unrecorded, par-
rent life expectancy at birth and on infant mortality ticularly in countries with remote rural populations;
rates. In general, throughout the world more males this accounts for some of the very low numbers
are born than females. Under good nutritional and shown in the table, especially for several African
health conditions and in times of peace, male chil- countries. Moreover, it is not clear whether an in-
dren under 5 have a higher death rate than females. crease in the number of mothers in hospital reflects
These columns show that female-male differences in more extensive medical care for women or more com-
the risk of dying by age 5 vary substantially. In indus- plications in pregnancy and childbirth because of
trial market economies, female babies have a 23 per- poor nutrition, for instance. (Table 28 shows data on
cent lower risk of dying by age 5 than male babies; low birth weight.)
the risk of dying by age 5 is actually higher for fe- These time series attempt to bring together readily
males than for males in some lower-income econ- available information not always presented in inter-
omies. This suggests differential treatment of males national publications. WHO warns that there are in-
and females with respect to food and medical care. evitably gaps in the series, and it has invited coun-
Such discrimination particularly affects very young tries to provide more comprehensive figures. They
girls, who may get a smaller share of scarce food or are reproduced here, from the 1991 WHO publication
receive less prompt costly medical attention. This pat- Maternal Mortality: A Global Factbook. The data refer to
tern of discrimination is not uniformly associated any year from 1983 to 1991.
with development. There are low- and middle-in- The education indicators, based on UNESCO
come countries (and regions within countries) where sources, show the extent to which females have equal
the risk of dying by age 5 for females relative to males access to schooling.
approximates the pattern found in industrial coun- Percentage of cohort persisting to grade 4 is the per-
tries. In many other countries, however, the numbers centage of children starting primary school in 1970
starkly demonstrate the need to associate women and 1986, respectively, who continued to the fourth
more closely with development. The health and wel- grade by 1973 and 1989. Figures in italics represent
fare indicators in both Table 28 and in this table's earlier or later cohorts. The data are based on enroll-
maternal mortality column draw attention, in particu- ment records. The slightly higher persistence ratios
lar, to the conditions associated with childbearing. for females in some African countries may indicate
This activity still carries the highest risk of death for male participation in activities such as animal
women of reproductive age in developing countries. herding.
The indicators reflect, but do not measure, both the All things being equal, and opportunities being the
availability of health services for women and the gen- same, the ratios for females per 100 males should be
eral welfare and nutritional status of mothers. close to 100. However, inequalities may cause the ra-
Life expectancy at birth is defined in the note to tios to move in different directions. For example, the
Table 1. number of females per 100 males will rise at second-

322


--- Page 337 ---
ary school level if male attendance declines more rap- timated to be between 68,000 and 71,000 square kilo-
idly in the final grades because of males' greater job meters in 1987. The most recent estimate for Malaysia
opportunities, conscription into the army, or migra- is 185,000 square kilometers.
tion in search of work. In addition, since the numbers Total annual deforestation refers to both closed and
in these columns refer mainly to general secondary open forest. Open forest is defined as at least a 10
education, they do not capture those (mostly males) percent tree cover with a continuous ground cover. In
enrolled in technical and vocational schools or in full- the ECE countries, open forest has 5-20 percent
time apprenticeships, as in Eastern Europe. crown cover or a mixture of bush and stunted trees.
All summary measures are country data weighted Deforestation is defined as the permanent conversion
by each country's share in the aggregate population. of forest land to other uses, including pasture, shift-
ing cultivation, mechanized agriculture, or infrastruc-
Table 33. Forests, protected areas, and water ture development. Deforested areas do not include
resources areas logged but intended for regeneration, nor areas
This table on natural resources represents a step to- degraded by fuelwood gathering, acid precipitation,
ward including environmental data in the assessment or forest fires. In temperate industrialized countries
of development and the planning of economic strate- the permanent conversion of remaining forest to
gies. It provides a partial picture of the status of for- other uses is relatively rare. Assessments of annual
ests, the extent of areas protected for conservation or deforestation, both in open and closed forest, are dif-
other environmentally related purposes, and the ficult to make and are usually undertaken as special
studies. The estimates shown here for 1981-85 were
availability and use of fresh water. The data reported calculated in 1980, projecting the rate of deforestation
here are drawn from the most authoritative sources during the first five years of the decade. Figures from
available. Perhaps even more than other data in this other periods are based on more recent or better as-
Report, however, these data should be used with cau- sessments than those used in the 1980 projections.
tion. Although they accurately characterize major dif- Special note should be taken of Brazilthe country
ferences in resources and uses among countries, true with the world's largest tropical closed forestwhich
comparability is limited because of variation in data now undertakes annual deforestation estimates. The
collection, statistical methods, definitions, and gov- estimate of deforestation is the most recent. Brazil is
ernment resources. unique in having several assessments of forest extent
No conceptual framework has yet been agreed and deforestation that use common methodology
upon that integrates natural resource and traditional based on images from Landsat satellites. Closed for-
economic data. Nor are the measures shown in this est deforestation in the Legal Amazon of Brazil dur-
table intended to be final indicators of natural re- ing 1990 is estimated at 13,800 square kilometers,
source wealth, environmental health, or resource de- down from the 17,900 square kilometers estimated in
pletion. They have been chosen because they are 1989. Between 1978 and 1988, deforestation in this
available for most countries, are testable, and reflect region averaged about 21,000 square kilometers per
some general conditions of the environment. year, having peaked in 1987 and declined greatly
The total area of forest refers to the total natural thereafter. By 1990, cumulative deforestation (both
stands of woody vegetation in which trees predomi- recent and historical) within the Legal Amazon to-
nate. These estimates are derived from country statis- taled 415,000 square kilometers. Deforestation out-
tics assembled by the Food and Agriculture Organiza- side the Legal Amazon also occurs, but there is much
tion (FAO) in 1980. Some of them are based on more less information on its extent. A 1980 estimate, that
recent inventories or satellite-based assessments per- open forest deforestation in Brazil totaled about
formed during the 1980s. In 1993 the FAO will com- 10,500 square kilometers, is the most recent available.
plete and publish an assessment of world forest ex- Nationally protected areas are areas of at least 1,000
tent and health that should modify some of these hectares that fall into one of five management catego-
estimates substantially. The total area of closed forest ries: scientific reserves and strict nature reserves; na-
refers to those forest areas where trees cover a high tional parks of national or international significance
proportion of the ground and there is no continuous (not materially affected by human activity); natural
ground cover. Closed forest, for members of the Eco- monuments and natural landscapes with some
nomic Commission for Europe (ECE), however, is de- unique aspects; managed nature reserves and wild-
fined as those forest areas where tree crowns cover life sanctuaries; and protected landscapes and sea-
more than 20 percent of the area. These natural scapes (which may include cultural landscapes). This
stands do not include tree plantations. More recent table does not include sites protected under local or
estimates of total forest cover are available for some provincial law or areas where consumptive uses of
countries. Total forest area in the Philippines was es- wildlife are allowed. These data are subject to varia-

323


--- Page 338 ---
tions in definition and in reporting to the organiza- tween 1970 and 1989. Data for small countries and
tions, such as the World Conservation Monitoring countries in arid and semiarid zones are less reliable
Centre, that compile and disseminate these data. To- than those for larger countries and those with higher
tal surface area is used to calculate the percentage of rainfall.
total area protected. Total water resources include both internal renewable
Freshwater withdrawal data are subject to variation resources and, where noted, river flows from other
in collection and estimation methods but accurately countries. Estimates are from 1992. Annual internal
show the magnitude of water use in both total and renewable water resources refer to the average an-
per capita terms. These data, however, also hide nual flow of rivers and of aquifers generated from
what can be significant variation in total renewable rainfall within the country. The total withdrawn and
water resources from one year to another. They also the percentage withdrawn of the total renewable re-
fail to distinguish the variation in water availability source are both reported in this table. Withdrawals
within a country both seasonally and geographically. include those from nonrenewable aquifers and de-
Because freshwater resources are based on long-term salting plants but do not include evaporative losses.
averages, their estimation explicitly excludes decade- Withdrawals can exceed 100 percent of renewable
long cycles of wet and dry. The Département Hydro- supplies when extractions from nonrenewable aqui-
géologie in Orleans, France, compiles waterresource fers or desalting plants are considerable or if there is
and withdrawal data from published documents, in- significant water reuse. Total per capita water with-
cluding national, United Nations, and professional drawal is calculated by dividing a country's total
literature. The Institute of Geography at the National withdrawal by its population in the year that with-
Academy of Sciences in Moscow also compiles global drawal estimates are available. Domestic use includes
water data on the basis of published work and, where drinking water, municipal use or supply, and uses for
necessary, estimates water resources and consump- public services, commercial establishments, and
tion from models that use other data, such as area homes. Direct withdrawals for industrial use, includ-
under irrigation, livestock populations, andprecipita- ing withdrawals for cooling thermoelectric plants, are
tion. These and other sources have been combinedby combined in the final column of this table with with-
the World Resources Institute to generate (un- drawals for agriculture (irrigation and livestock pro-
published) data for this table. Withdrawal data are for duction). Numbers may not sum to the total per cap-
single years and vary from country to country be- ita figure because of rounding.

324


--- Page 339 ---
Data sources

Production U.N. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. Various years. Statistical Yearbook. New
and domestic York.
absorbtion Various years. Energy Statistics Yearbook. Statistical Papers, series J. New York.
U.N. International Comparison Program Phases IV (1980), V (1985), and Phase VI (1990) reports, and
data from ECE, ESCAP, Eurostat, OECD, and U.N.
FAO, IMF, UNIDO, and World Bank data; national sources.
Fiscal and International Monetary Fund. Government Finance Statistics Yearbook. Vol. 11. Washington, D.C.
monetary Various years. International Financial Statistics. Washington, D.C.
accounts U.N. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. Various years. World Energy Supplies.
Statistical Papers, series J. New York.
IMF data.
Core International Monetary Fund. Various years. International Financial Statistics. Washington, D.C.
international U.N. Conference on Trade and Development. Various years. Handbook of International Trade and
transactions Development Statistics. Geneva.
U.N. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. Various years. Monthly Bulletin of
Statistics. New York.
Various years. Yearbook of International Trade Statistics. New York.
FAO, IMF, U.N., and World Bank data.
External Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Various years. Development Co-operation.
finance Paris.
1988. Geographical Distribution of Financial Flows to Developing Countries. Paris.
Human IMF, OECD, and World Bank data; World Bank Debtor Reporting System.
and natural Bos, Eduard, Patience W. Stephens, and My T. Vu. World Population Projections, 1992-93 Edition
resources (forthcoming). Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press.
Chen, S., G. Datt, and M. Ravallion. 1993. "Is Poverty Increasing in the Developing World?"
Working Paper Series 1146. World Bank, Policy Research Department, Washington D.C.
Institute for Resource Development/Westinghouse. 1987. Child Survival: Risks and the Road to Health.
Columbia, Md.
Mauldin, W. Parker, and Holden J. Segal. 1988. "Prevalence of Contraceptive Use: Trends and
Issues." Studies in Family Planning 19, 6: 335-53
Sivard, Ruth. 1985. WomenA World Survey. Washington, D.C.: World Priorities.
U.N. Department of International Economic and Social Affairs. Various years. Demographic Yearbook.
New York.
Various years. Population and Vital Statistics Report. New York.
Various years. Statistical Yearbook. New York.
1989. Levels and Trends of Contraceptive Use as Assessed in 1988. New York.
1988. Mortality of Children under Age 5: Projections 1950-2025. New York.
1991. World Urbanization Prospects 1991. New York.
1991. World Poptlation Prospects: 1990. New York.
1992. World Population Prospects: 1992 Revision. New York.
U.N. Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization. Various years. Statistical Yearbook. Paris.
1990. Compendium of Statistics on Illiteracy. Paris.
UNICEF. 1989. The State of the World's Children 1989. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
World Health Organization. Various years. World Health Statistics Annual. Geneva.
1986. Maternal Mortality Rates: A Thbulation of Available Information, 2nd edition. Geneva.
1991. Maternal Mortality: A Global Factbook. Geneva
Various years. World Health Statistics Report. Geneva.
World Resources Institute data (unpublished).
FAO and World Bank data
World Conservation Monitoring Center data (unpublished).

325


--- Page 340 ---
Part 1 Classification of economies by income and region

Sub-Saha ran African Asia Europe and Central Asia Middle East and North Africa
East & Eastern Europe
Income Southern East Asia and and Central Rest of Middle North
group Subgroup Africa West Africa Pacific South Asia Asia Europe East Africa
Americas
Burundi Benin Cambodia Afghanistan Yemen, Rep. Egypt, Arab Guyana
ComorosEthiopia Burkina Bangladesh Rep. Haiti
Kenya Central Faso ChinaIndonesia Bhutan Honduras
Lesotho African Lao PDR India Nicaragua
Madagascar ChadRep. Myanmar Maldives
Malawi Equatorial Solomon Nepal
Mozambique Islands Pakistan
Rwanda Guinea Viet Nam Sri Lanka
Somalia Gambia, The
Low- Ghana
income Sudan Guinea
Tanzania Guinea-Bissau
Uganda Liberia
Zaire Mali
Zambia Mauritania
Zimbabwe Niger
Nigeria
São Tome
and
Principe
Sierra Leone
Togo
Angola Cameroon Fiji Albania Turkey Iran, Islamic Algeria Belize
Djibouti Cape Verde Kiribati Armenia Rep. Morocco Bolivia
Mauritius Congo Korea, Dem. Azerbaijan Iraq Tunisia Chile
Namibia Côte d'Ivoire Rep. Bulgaria Jordan Colombia
Swaziland Senegal Malaysia Czecho- Lebanon Costa Rica
Marshall slovakia" Syrian Arab Cuba
Islands Georgia Rep. Dominica
Micronesia, Kazakhstan Dominican
Lower Fed. Sts. Kyrgyzstan Rep.
Mongolia Moldova Ecuador
Papua New Poland El Salvador
Guinea Romania Grenada
Philippines Tajikistan Guatemala
Thailand Turknienistan Jamaica
Tonga Ukraine Panama
Vanuatu Uzbekistan Paraguay
Western Peru
Samoa St. Lucia
Middle- St. Vincent
income Botswana Gabon .AmencanBelarus .Gibraltar Bahram Libya Antigua and
Mayotte Samoa Estonia Greece Oman Barbuda
Reunion Guam Hungary Isle of Man Saudi Arabia Argentina
Seychelles Korea, Rep. Latvia Malta Aruba
South African Macao Lithuania Portugal Barbados
New Russian Brazil
Caledonia Federation French
Yugoslaviac Guiana
Guadeloupe
Upper Martinique
Mexico
Netherlands
Puerto RicoAntilles

St. Kitts and
SurinameNevis
Trinidad
and Tobago
Uruguay
No.oflow-&rniddle- Venezuela

income economies: 162 26 23 25 8 22 6 9 5 38

326


--- Page 341 ---
Part 1 (continued)

Sub-Saha ran African Asia Europe and Central Asia Middle East and North Africa
East& Eastern Europe
Income Southern East Asia and and Central Rest of Middle North
group. Subgroup Africa West Africa Pacific South Asia Asia Europe East AfricaAmericas
Australia Andorra Canada
Japan Austria United
New Belgium States
Zealand Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Iceland
OECD Ireland
countries Italy
Luxembourg
High- Netherlands
income Norway
San Marino
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United
Kingdom
Brunei Channel Israel Bahamas
French Islands Kuwait Bermuda
Non-OECD Polynesia Cyprus Qatar Virgin
countries Hong Kong Faeroe United Arab Islands (US)
Singapore Islands Emirates
OAE Greenland
Total no. of
economies: 201 26 23 33 8 22 28 13 5 43

For some analysis, South Africa is not included in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Refers to the former Czechoslovakia; disaggregated data are not yet available.
Refers to the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; disaggregated data are not yet available.Other Asian economiesTaiwan, China. -

Definitions of groups

These tables classify all World Bank member economies, plus all upper-middle-income, $2,556$7,910; and high-income, $7,911
other economies with populations of more than 30,000. or more.
Income group: Economies are divided according to 1991 GNP per The estimates for the republics of the former Soviet Union should
capita, calculated using the World Bank Atlas method. The groups be regarded as very preliminary; their classification will be kept
are: low-income, $635 or less; lower-middle-income, $636-2,555; under review.

327


--- Page 342 ---
Part 2 Classification of economies by major export category and indebtedness

Low- and middle-income
Low-income Middle-income High-income

Severely Moderately Less Severely Moderately LessNot classified
Group indebted indebted indebted indebted indebted indebted OECD non-OECDby indebtedness
China Bulgaria Hungary Czecho- Armenia Belgium Hong Kong
Poland slovakia' Belarus Canada Israel
Korea, Dem. Estonia Finland Sing,pore
Rep. Georgia Germany OAE
Korea, Rep. Kyrgyzstan Ireland
Exporters of Lebanon Latvia Italy
manufactures Macao Lithuania Japan
Romania Moldova Luxembourg
Russian Sweden
Federation Switzerland
Ukraine
Uzbekistan
Afghanistan Guinea Chad Albania Chile Botswana American Iceland Faeroe
Burundi Malawi Solomon Argentina Costa Rica French Samoa New Islands
Equatorial Rwanda Islands Bolivia Guatemala Guiana Zealand Greenland
Guinea Togo Zimbabwe Côte d'Ivoire Papua New Guadeloupe
Ethiopia Cuba Guinea Namibia
Ghana Mongolia Paraguay
Guinea-Bissau Peru Reunion
Guyana St. Vincent
Honduras Suriname
Exporters Liberia Swaziland
of nonfnel Madagascar
primary Mauritania
products Myanmar
Nicaragua
Niger
São Tome
and Principe
Somalia
Tanzania
Uganda
Viet Nam
Zaire
Zambia
Nigeria AlgeriaGabon Iran, Islamic Turkmenistan Brunei
Angola Venezuela Rep. Qatar
Exporters Congo Libya United Arab
of fuels Iraq Oman Emirates
(mainly oil) Saudi Arabia
Trinidad
and Tobago
Cambodia Benin Bhutan Jamaica Dominican Antigua and Aruba United Bahamas
Egypt, Arab Gambia, The Burkina Faso Jordan Rep. Barbuda Kingdom Bermuda
Rep. Haiti Lesotho Panama Greece Barbados Cyprus
Sudan Maldives Cape Verde French
Nepal Djibouti Polynesia
Yemen, Rep. El Salvador
Fiji
Grenada
Kiribati
Exporters Malta
oj services Martinique
Netherlands
Antilles
Seychelles
St. Kitts and
Nevis
St. Lucia
Tongs
Vanuatu
Western
Samoa
Kenya Bangladesh Brazil Cameroon Bahrain Azerbaijan Australia Kuwait
Lao PDR Central Ecuador Colombia Belize Kazakhstan Austria
Mali African Rep. Mexico Philippines Dominica Tajikistan Denmark
Diversied Mozambique Comoros Morocco Senegal Malaysia France
exporters Sierra Leone India Syrian Arab Tunisia Mauritius Netherlands
Indonesia Rep. Turkey Portugal Norway
Pakistan Uruguay South Africa Spain
Sri Lanka Thailand United
Yugoslavia' States
328


--- Page 343 ---
Part 2 (continued)

Low- and middle-income
Low-income Middle-income High-income

Severely Moderately Less Severely Moderately LessNot classified
Group indebted indebted indebted indebted indebted indebted OECD non-OECDby indebtedness

Gibraltar Andorra
Guam Channel
Isle of Man Islands
Not classified Marshall San Marino
by export Islands Virgin Islands
category Mayotte (US)
Micronesia,
Fed. Sts.
New
Caledoma
Puerto Rico
No. of
economies 201 30 17 7 21 16 47 24 21 18
Other Asian economiesTaiwan, China.Refers to the former Czechoslovakia; disaggregated data are not yet available.

Refers to the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia; disaggregated data are not yet available.

Definitions of groups

These tables classify all World Bank member economies, plus all of the two key ratios exceeds 60 percent of, but does not reach, the
other economies with populations of more than 30,000. critical levels. For economies that do not report detailed debt
Major export category: Major exports are those that account for statistics to the World Bank Debtor Reporting System,
50 percent or more of total exports of goods and services from one present-value calculation is not possible. Instead the following
category, in the period 1987-89. The categories are: nonfuel methodology is used to classify the non-DRS economies. Severely
primary (SITC 0,1,2, 4, plus 68), fuels (SITC 3), manufactures indebted means three of four key ratios (averaged over 198 8-90)
(SITC 5 to 9, less 68), and services (factor and nonfactor service are above critical levels: debt to GNP (50 percent); debt to exports
receipts plus workers' remittances). If no single category accounts (275 percent), debt service to exports (30 percent); and interest to
for 50 percent or more of total exports, the economy is classified exports (20 percent). Moderately indebted means three of four key
as diversified. ratios exceed 60 percent of, but do not reach, the critical levels. All
other low- and middle-income economies are classified as
Indebtedness: Standard World Bank definitions, of severe and less-indebted.
moderate indebtedness, averaged over three years (1989-91) are Not classified by indebtedness are the republics of the Former
used to classify economies in this table. Severely indebted means Soviet Union and some small economies for which detailed debt
either of the two key ratios is above critical levels: present value data are not available
of debt service to GNP (80 percent) and present value of debt
service to exports (220 percent). Moderately indebted means either

329


--- Page 345 ---
How to order
World Development Report

CUSTOMERS IN THE UNITED STATES: CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES:
Complete this coupon and return to: Contact your local World Bank publications distributor or
World Bank Publications branch of Oxford University Press for information on
Box 7247-8619 prices in local currency and payment terms. If no
Philadelphia, PA 19170-8619, U.S.A. distributor is listed for your country, use this order form
To have your order shipped faster, call (202) 473-1155 to and return it to the U.S. address. Orders from countries
charge by credit card, or send this completed order coupon with distributors that are sent to the U.S. address will be
by facsimile by dialing (202)676-0581. returned to the customer.

number Title Quantity UnitOrderpriceamount($)Total

60890 World Development Report 1993: Investing in Health 19.95
60876 World Development Report 1992: Development and the Environment 19.95
60868 World Development Report 1991: The Challenge of Development 19.95
60851 World Development Report 1990: Poverty 19.95
Other language editions are available. Please contact customer service or your local distributor for
languages and availabifity.

Subtotal US$
* SHIPPING AND HANDLING charges are US$3.50 if paying by check or credit card.
If purchase order is used, actual shipping and handling costs will be charged. For air Shipping and handling* US $
mail delivery outside the U.S., include an additional US$6.00 per item. Allow 6-8 weeks Total US $
for delivery by surface mail outside the U.S.

CHECK METHOD OF PAYMENT
U Enclosed is my check, payable to World Bank Publications.
U Charge my U VISA U Mastercard U American Express

Credit card number Expiration date Signature

U Bill me. (Institutional customers only. Purchase order must be included.)

PLEASE TYPE OR PRINT. Legible information ensures prompt and correct delivery.

Date Ship to: (Enter if different from purchaser.)

Name Name

Firm Firm

Address Address

City State City State

Postal code Country Postal code Country

Telephone Telephone

Thank you for your order

WR93


--- Page 346 ---
Distributors of World Bank Publications

ARGENTINA The Middle East Observer KENYA SOUTH AFRICA, BOTSWANA
Carlos Hirsch, SRL 41, Sherif Street Africa Book Service (E.A.) Ltd. For single titles:
Caleria Guemes Cairo Quaran House, Mfangano Street Oxford University Press
florida 165,4th Floor-Ofc. 453/465 P.O. Box 45245 Southern Africa
1333 Buenos Aires FINLAND Nairobi P.O. Box 1141
Akateeminen Kirjakauppa Cape Town 8000
AUSTRALIA, PAPUA NEW GUINEA, P.O. Box 128 KOREA, REPUBLIC OF
FIJI, SOLOMON ISLANDS, SF-00101 Helsinki 10 Pan Korea Book Corporation For sutacription orders:
VANUATU, AND WESTERN SAMOA P.O. Box 101, Kwangwhamun International Subscription Service
D.A. Information Services FRANCE Seoul P.O. Box 41095
648 Whitehorse Road World Bank Publications Craighall
Mitcham 3132 66, avenue d'Ihna MALAYSIA Johannesburg 2024
Victoria 75116 Paris Univ. of Malaya Coop. Bookshop, Ltd.
P.O. Box 1127, Jalan Pantai Baru SPAIN
AUSTRIA GERMANY 59700 Kuala Lumpur Mundi-Prensa Libros, S.A.
Gerold and Co. UNO-Verlag Castello 37
Graben 31 Poppelsdorfer Allee 55 MEXICO 28001 Madrid
A-loll Wien 13-5300 Bonn I INFOTEC
Apartado Postal fl-860 Librerla lnternacional AEDOS
BANGLADESH HONG KONG, MACAO 14060 lialpan, Mexico D.F. Consell de Cent, 391
Micro Industries Development Asia 2000 Ltd. 08009 Barcelona
Assistance Society (MIDAS) 46-48 Wyndham Street NETHERLANDS
House5, Road 16 Winning Centre Do Undeboom/lnOr-Publikalies SRI LANKA AND THE MALDIVES
Dhanmondi R/Area 2nd Floor P.O. Box 202 Lake House Bookshop
Dhaka 1209 Central Hong Kong 7480 AE Haaksbergen P.O. Box 244
100, Sir Chittampalam A.
Branch offices: INDIA NEW ZEALAND Gardiner Mawatha
Pine View, 1st Floor Allied Publishers Private Ltd. EBSCO NZ Ltd. Colombo 2
100 Agrabad Commercial Area 751 Mount Road Private Mall Bag 99914
Chittagong 4100 Madras- 600 002 New Market SWEDEN
Auckland For single titles:
76, K.D.A. Avenue Branch offices: Fritzes Fackboksforetaget
Kulna 9100 15 J.N. Heredia Marg NIGERIA Regeringsgatan 12, Box 16356
Ballard Estate University Press Limited S-103 27 Stockholm
BELGIUM Bombay - 400 038 Three Crowns Building Jericho
Jean Do L.annoy Private Mail Bag 5095 For subscription orders:
Av. du Roi 202 13/14 Asaf All Road Ibadan Wennergren-Williams AB
1060 Brussels New Delhi - 110 002 P.O. Box 1305
NORWAY S-171 25 Solna
CANADA 17 Chittaranjan Avenue Narvesen Information Center
Le Diffuseur Calcutta -700 072 Book Department SWITZERLAND
C.P. 85, 1501B rue Ampere P.O. Box 6125 Etterstad For single titles:
Boucherville, Québec Jayadeva Hostel Building N-0602 Oslo 6 Librairie Payot
J4B 506 5th Main Road, Gandhinagar Case postale 3212
Bangalore - 560 009 PAKISTAN CH 1002 Lausanne
CHILE Mirza Book Agency
Invertec ICT S.A. 3-5-1129 Kachiguda 65, Shahrah-e-Quaid-e-Azam For subscription orders:
Americo Vespucio Norte 1165 Cross Road P.O. Box No. 729 Librairie Payot
Santiago Hyderabad -500 027 Lahore 54000 Service des Abonnements
Case postale 3312
CHINA Prarthana Flats, 2nd Floor PERU CH 1002 Lausanne
China Financial & Economic Near Thakore Baug, Navrangpura Editorial Desarrollo SA
Publishing House Ahmedabad - 380 009 Apartado 3824 THAILAND
8, Da Fo Si Dong Jie Lima I Central Department Store
Beijing Patiala House 306 Silom Road
16-A Ashok Marg PHILIPPINES Bangkok
COLOMBIA Lucknow -226001 International Book Center
Infoenlace Ltda. Suite 1703, Cityland 10 TRINIDAD & TOBAGO, ANTIGUA
Apartado Aereo 34270 Central Bazaar Road Condominium Tower I BARBUDA, BARBADOS,
Bogota D.E. 60 Bajaj Nagar Ayala Avenue, H.V. dela DOMINICA, GRENADA, GUYANA,
Nagpur 440 010 Costa Extension JAMAICA, MONTSERRAT, ST.
COTE D'IVOIRE Makati, Metro Manila KITrS & NEVIS, ST. LUCIA,
Centre d'Edition et de Diffusion INDONESIA POLAND ST. VINCENT & GRENADINES
Africaines (CEDA) Pt. Indira Limited Systematics Studies Unit
04 B.P. 541 Jalan Borobudur 20 International Publishing Service #9 Watts Street
Abidjan 04 Plateau P.O. Box 181 UI. Piekna 31/37 Curepe
Jakarta 10320 00-677 Warzawa Trinidad, West Indies
CYPRUS
Center of Applied Research IRELAND For suecription orders: TURKEY
Cyprus College Government Supplies Agency II'S Journals Infotel
6, Diogenes Street, Engomi 4-5 Flarcourt Road UI. Okrezna 3 Narlabahce Sok. No.15
P.O. Box 2006 Dublin 2 02-916 Warszawa Cagaloglu
Nicosia Istanbul
ISRAEL PORTUGAL
DENMARK Yozmot Literature Ltd. Livraria Portugal UNITED KINGDOM
SamfundsUtteratur P.O. Box 56055 Rua Do Carmo 70-74 Microinfo Ltd.
Rosenoerns Allé 11 Tel Aviv 61560 1200 Lisbon P.O. Box 3
DK-l970 Frederiksberg C Alton, Hampshire GU34 2PC
ITALY SAUDI ARABIA, QATAR England
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Licosa Commissionaria Sansoni SPA Jarir Book Store
Editora Taller, C. por A. Via Duca Di Calabria, 1/1 P.O. Box 3196 VENEZUELA
Reslauración e Isabel la Catblica 309 Caaella Postale 552 Riyadh 11471 Libreria del Este
Apartado de Correos 2190 Z-1 50125 Firenze Aptdo. 60.337
Santo Domingo SINGAPORE, TAIWAN, Caracas 1060-A
JAPAN MYANMAR,BRUNEI
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF Eastern Book Service Information PublicationsPrivate, Ltd.
Al Ahram Hongo 3-chome, Bunkyo-ku 113 Golden Wheel Building
Al Calaa Street Tokyo 41, Kallang Pudding, #04.03
Cairo Singapore 1334


--- Page 348 ---
The World Bank

Becausegood health increases the economic prpducthrit of individuals and the economic
growth rate of countries, investing in health is one means of accelerating development More
importat, good health is a goal in itself
)uring the past forty years life expectancy u the developing world has risen and
child mOrtality has decreased, sometimes dramatically But progress is only one side o the
picture The toll from childhood and tropical diseases remains high even as new problei
including AIDS and the diseases of aging populationsappear on the scene And all counthes
are struggling with the problems of controlling health expenditures and making health care
accessible to the broad population
This sixteenth annual World Development Report examines the controversial q1ieS
tions surrounding health care and health policy its findings are based in large part on innova-
tive research, including estimation of the global burden of disease and the cost-effectiveness of
interventions These assessments can help in setting priorities for health spending
The Report advocates a threefold approach to health policy for governmentsin devel-
oping countries and in the formerly socialist countries
Foster an economic environment that will enable households to improve theirown
health .ro1ciesor econo flic growth thatensure income gains for the poor are essential. So,
too, is expand&tmvestment in schooling, particularly for girls
Redirect government spending away from specialized care and toward such low-
cost and highly effective activities as immunization, programs to combat micronutrient defi-
ciencies, and control and treatment of mfectious diseases By adopting the packages of public
health measures and essential clinical dare described in the Report, developing countries could
reduce their burden of disease by 25 percent
Encourage greater diversity and competition in the provision of health services by
decentralizing government services,' promoting competitive procurement practices, fostering
greater involvement by nongovernmental and other private organizations, and regulating
insurance markets.
These reforms could translate into longer, healthier, and more productive lives for
people around the world, and especially for the more than 1 billion poor
As in previous editions, this Report includes the World Development Indicators,
whih give comprehensive1 current data on social andeconomic development in more than 200
countries and territories The Indicatois are also available on diskette for ise with personal
conp/uters Special appendices to the Report provide hetlth statistics and estimates of the
global burden of disease.

90000

Cover design by Walt Rosenquist
9 780195 208900
ISBN 0-19-520890-0