

--- Page 1 ---

Commission européenne, DG COMP MERGER REGISTRY, 1049 Bruxelles, BELGIQUE  
Europese Commissie, DG COMP MERGER REGISTRY, 1049 Brussel,  BELGIË 
 
Tel: +32 229-91111. Fax: +32 229-64301. E-mail: COMP-MERGER-REGISTRY@ec.europa.eu. 
Disclaimer : 
 
The Competition DG makes the information provided by the notifying parties in section 1.2 of Form CO 
available to the public in order to increase transparency. This information has been prepared by the notifying 
parties under their sole responsibility, and its content in no way prejudges the view the Commission may take of 
the planned operation. Nor can the Commission be held responsible for any incorrect or misleading information 
contained therein. 
 
M.10269 TDR CAPITAL / ARROW GLOBAL 
 
SECTION 1.2 
 
Description of the concentration 
 
The notified transaction concerns an acquisition by funds managed by TDR Capital LLP (“ TDR 
Capital”) of the entire issued, and to be issued, ordinary share capital of Arrow Global Group plc 
(“Arrow Global”) (the “Transaction”).  
 
As a result of the Transaction, funds managed by TDR Capital will acquire sole control of Arrow 
Global within the meaning of Article 3(1)(b) of the EU Merger Regulation.  
 
TDR Capital, headquartered in London, UK, is a private equity firm founded in 2002. It has 
invested in a variety of sectors including in mo tor fuels retail, gyms and health clubs, conveyor 
car washes, vacant property services, UK so cial housing refurbishment services, modular 
construction, pubs and restaurants, logistic pallet return, coastal transport, life insurance and UK 
retirement income products.  
 
Arrow Global is a public limited company listed on the London Stock Exchange and 
headquartered in Manchester, United Kingdom. Arrow Global is an investor and asset manager in 
the non-performing and non-core assets sector. A rrow Global targets three core asset classes, 
comprising unsecured and secured non-performing, and performing portfolio investments across 
the consumer, SME, mortgage, real estate, master servicing / securitization / credit bureau and 
fund management niches. Arrow Global operates a number of inve stment and servicing brands, 
through which it provides investment opportuniti es for institutional funds and deleveraging 
solutions for banks.
 