

--- Page 1 ---

May 30, 2007 
 
 
Technical Document 1  
attached to the European XFEL Convention 
 
 
Executive Summary of the Technical Design Report (Part A)  
and 
Scenario for the Rapid Start-up of the European XFEL Facility 
(Part B) 
 
 
Introduction 
The XFEL Technical Design Report (TDR), adopted by the XFEL Steering Committee in 
July 2006, foresees a facility comprising an acce lerator complex for an electron energy of up 
to 20 GeV (17.5 GeV in the standard operation mode), five undulator branches with ten 
experimental stations, and vari ous office, laboratory and genera l utility buildings distributed 
over three different sites. An executive summary of the TDR is given in part A of this Annex 
to the “Convention concerning the constructio n and operation of a European X-ray Free-
Electron Laser Facility” (XFEL Convention).  
The total project cost of the XFEL Facility as  set out in the Technical Design Report (TDR) 
and in Annex 3 to the XFEL Convention amounts to 1081.6 M€, out of which 38.8 M€ for the 
preparation, 986.4 M€ for construction and 56.4 M€ for commissioning (all in 2005 prices).  
In order to begin the construction as early as pos sible, the Contracting Parties agreed that the 
facility be realised in steps, with initial co mmitments covering only the costs of the first step. 
The construction costs for the first step were set at appr oximately 850 M€ (instead of 
986.4 M€).  
In part B of this Annex the characteristics of the rapid start-up scenario of the XFEL project 
are briefly outlined. A reference configuratio n, corresponding to a construction cost of 
850 M€ is described; this confi guration is not unique and altern ative ones, all of which have 
construction costs not exceeding 850 M€, are also exemplified. A timeline for the final 
decision on the adoption of a specific configurati on is also indicated. All alternatives are 
upgradeable to the full facility as described in the TDR. 
 
 


--- Page 2 ---

 
 


--- Page 3 ---

 
 
 
 
 
Part A of  
Technical Document 1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
of the  
TECHNICAL DESIGN REPORT 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 4 ---

ii Executive Summary
 
Executive Summary 
1 Basic Objectives 
This report contains a full technical descripti on of the European X-ray Free-Electron Laser 
Facility, a new international scientific infrastructure to be built in the north west of Hamburg. 
The purpose of the facility is to generate extremely brilliant  (peak brilliance ~ 10 33 
photons/s/mm2/mrad2/0.1%BW), ultra-short (~ 100 fs) pulses of spatially coherent  x-rays 
with wavelengths down to 0.1 nm, and to ex ploit them for revolutionary scientific 
experiments in a variety of disciplines spanning physics, chemistry, materials science and 
biology. The design contains a baseline facility and provisions to facilitate future extensions 
and improvements, in preparation of further pr ogress in the relevant technologies. The basic 
process adopted to generate the x-ray pulses is SASE (Self-Amplified Spontaneous Emission), 
whereby electron bunches are generated in a high-brightness gun, brought to high energy (up 
to 20 GeV) through a superconducting linear acce lerator, and conveyed to long (up to ~200 
m) undulators where the x-rays are generated. Five photon beamlines deliver the x-ray pulses 
to ten experimental stations, where state-of-the-art equipment is available for the experiments.  
From this new user facility, novel results of  fundamental importance can be expected in 
materials physics, plasma physics, planet science and astrophysics, chemistry, structural 
biology and biochemistry, with significant po ssible impact on technologi es such as nuclear 
fusion, catalysis, combustion (and their environmental aspects), as well as on biomedical and 
pharmaceutical technologies. Thanks to its superconducting accelerator technology, in spite of 
competing American and Japanese projects, the European X-ray Free-Electron Laser Facility 
will allow Europe to keep its leadership in ba sic and applied science with accelerator-based 
light sources, a leadership it acquired in the ear ly 90’s with the construction and operation of 
the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) in Grenoble. 
2 History of the Project 
The basic technology underlying the European  X-ray Free-Electron Laser Facility is the 
superconducting linear accelerator technology, de veloped by an intern ational collaboration 
coordinated by the DESY laboratory in Hamburg, with the initial objective to create TESLA 
(Tera-Electronvolt Superconducting Linear Accele rator), an electron-positron linear collider 
with TeV energy, for particle physics studies, hence the name TESLA technology. It was soon 
realized that this type of innovative linear ac celerator had ideal characteristics for an x-ray 
free-electron laser. Proposals to build a free-electron laser, first as a side branch of the linear 
collider, and later as a self-standing facility were put forward by DESY to the German 
government. The construction of a test fac ility (TESLA Test Facility 1, or TTF1) was 
undertaken, and lasing down to ~90 nm wavelengths was succe ssfully demonstrated in 2000. 
TTF2 had the more ambitious goal to push lasing to 6 nm wavelengths, with a 1 GeV linear 
accelerator. This should be achieved in 2007; in  the meantime, acceleration of electrons up to 
0.75 GeV has obtained lasing at 32 nm (Jan. 2005)  and at 13 nm (April 2006), and a vigorous 
user program was started in August 2005 in the experiments hall downstream from the free-
electron laser, forming what is now calle d the FLASH facility. In 2003, the German 
government decided to launch the proposal to constitute a European Facility for the 
construction and operation of an x-ray free- electron laser in Hamburg, undertaking the 


--- Page 5 ---

Executive Summary iii
 
commitment to finance the new facility by providing up to 60% of its construction costs, and 
up to 40% of the operation costs. The choice of the location in Hamburg is motivated by the 
possibility to take advantage of the unique experience and know-how of the DESY Machine 
Division in the area of superconducting linacs, a nd of the possibility to gain first-hand 
experience on the operation of an FEL through the FLASH facility. 
3 The Scientific Case and the X-ray FEL Interna-
tional Context 
All natural sciences benefit from the use of photon s (light waves) of different wavelengths to 
probe the phenomena of nature. The use of infrared, visible and near ultraviolet light has been 
revolutionized by the invention of gas lasers and of solid-state lasers, with their properties of 
high brilliance, spatial coherence and, in more recent decades, ultrashort pulses, with duration 
down to a few femtoseconds or less (1 femtosec ond, or 1 fs, equals a billionth of a millionth 
of a second; light travels a distance of 0.3 μm in 1 fs). This time scale is of particular 
importance because atoms in molecules and solids oscillate around their equilibrium positions 
with typical periods of a few hundreds of fs, an d in general, movements of atoms during the 
rearrangement of their positions in chemical r eactions, or phase transformations also occur on 
such a time scale. 
In the range of the ultraviolet, soft x-ray and hard x-ray wavelengths, great progress was 
achieved by the exploitation of synchrotron ra diation, the brilliant emission by electrons or 
positrons orbiting in a circular accelerator. Synchrotron radiation, however, is far less brilliant 
than a powerful laser, has a very limited degree of spatial coherence, and it comes typically in 
pulses of ~ 30 ps = 30,000 fs duration. The objective of the modern projects for the realization 
of x-ray free-electron lasers is the extension of the scientific and technological revolution, 
ushered by lasers in the visible light range, to  the x-ray range, providing spatially coherent 
pulses of  < 100 fs duration, with peak powers of many GW.  
As discussed in four international workshops organized between October 2005 and March 
2006 in Hamburg, Paris, Cope nhagen, and near Oxford, the outstanding properties of the 
European XFEL beams (coherence, ultra-high brilliance and time structure) and the 
development of appropriate detectors and instrumentation will allow completely new 
experiments. A few examples are listed below. 
Coherence can be used for holographic and le nsless imaging in materials science and in 
biology. Spectacular possibilities open up, as de tailed theoretical studi es and simulations 
predict that, with a single very short and in tense coherent x-ray pulse from the XFEL, a 
diffraction pattern may be recorded from a large macromolecule, a virus, or a cell, without the 
need for crystalline periodicity. This would eliminate a formidable bottleneck for many 
systems of high interest, e.g. membrane prot eins, viruses and viral genomes. Measurement of 
the over-sampled x-ray diffraction pattern permits phase retrieval and hence structure 
determination. Although indivi dual samples would eventually be destroyed by the very 
intense x-ray pulse, a three-dimensional data set could be a ssembled, when copies of a 
reproducible sample are exposed to the beam one by one. 
The high intensity can also be used to produ ce highly ionized states of atoms, generating 
in the laboratory conditions and processes occurring in interstellar gases. In conjunction with 
the ultra short pulse duration, it can be expl oited in pump-and-probe  experiments, where 
conventional laser pulses (pump) are used to trigger a chemic al reaction or a phase transition, 


--- Page 6 ---

iv Executive Summary
 
and the XFEL pulses (probe), each following the pump pulse with a well determined delay 
(from ~50 fs up to ns or even μs), provide a “movie” of the atomic displacements and 
rearrangement of chemical bonds. In this wa y, catalytic mechanisms in chemical and 
biochemical reactions can be el ucidated, fast reactions (e.g. combustion) can be subject to 
detailed investigation, nu cleation of ordered phases at phas e transitions can be imaged, and 
hitherto inaccessible states of matter can be brought to experimental investigation: if the pump 
pulse is sufficiently powerful to produce a plasma, the x-ray pulse can still penetrate the 
highly ionized medium (opaque to visible lig ht) and provide information on the propagation 
of the shock front, on the time evolution of temperature and pressure distributions, on the 
equation of state.  
As already emphasized, the potential relevance of scientific breakthroughs of this caliber 
extends beyond basic science, to technologies of essential importance for Europe. It would not 
be wise to leave a competitive advantage in this field to United States, where the LCLS (Linac 
Coherent Light Source) project is well under wa y at Stanford, and to Japan, where the SCSS 
(Spring-8 Compact SASE Source) has obtained fi nancial green light for start-up already in 
2006. Although these projects started already, and are probably going to be completed earlier, 
the European XFEL adoption of the superconducting accelerator technology allows producing 
30,000 x-ray pulses per second (and possibly even more in the future), to be compared to the 
120 of the LCLS and 60 of the SCSS. In addition to this decisive technical advantage, 
reducing the time necessary to complete some experiments by two orders of magnitude, the 
useful experience acquired with FLASH could considerably benefit the rapid establishment of 
a successful scientific expl oitation. If the European XFEL Facility keeps a schedule 
comparable to that of the competing projects, it can occupy the leading position in this field.  
A European laboratory in Hamburg, pursuing excellence in the physics and applications of 
hard x-ray free-electron laser radiation would be complementary to other projects in Europe 
emphasizing the soft x-ray part of the spect rum, and benefit all of them through the 
development and sharing of common technologies. 
4 Layout and Performance Goals of the Facility 
The main components of the Facility are (see Figure 4.1): 
 
• the injector 
• the linear accelerator  
• the beam distribution system 
• the undulators 
• the photon beamlines 
• the instruments in the Experiments Hall. 
 
These components are disposed along an essentially linear geometry, 3.4 km long, starting on 
the DESY campus in the northwest part of the city of Hamburg, and ending in the 
neighboring Federal State of Schl eswig-Holstein, south of the city of Schenefeld, where the 
Experimental Hall is located. 
The basic functions of the main components are schematically described in the following. In 
the injector, electron bunches ar e extracted from a solid cathode by a laser beam, accelerated 
 


--- Page 7 ---

Executive Summary v
 
3.4km
InjectorLinac Tunnel, 2 km
Experimental Hall
Beam 
Distribution 
System
Undulators
and Photon 
Beamlines,
1.2 km
(Possible future extension)
3.4km
3.4km
InjectorLinac Tunnel, 2 km
Experimental Hall
Beam 
Distribution 
System
Undulators
and Photon 
Beamlines,
1.2 km
(Possible future extension)
 
 
Figure 4.1: Schematic layout of the main components of the European XFEL Facility. 
 
by an electron RF gun and directed towards the linear accelerator (linac) with an exit energy 
of 120 MeV. In the linear accelerator, co nsisting of a 1.6 km long sequence of 
superconducting accelerating modules, magnets for beam steering and focusing, and 
diagnostic equipment, the electrons are accelerated  to energies of up to 20 GeV (17.5 GeV is 
the energy foreseen for the standard mode of operation of the XFEL facility). Along the 
accelerator, two stages of bunch compression are located, to produce the short and very dense 
electron bunches required to trigger the SASE pro cess. At the end of the linac, the individual 
electron bunches are channeled down one or the other of two electron beamlines by the beam 
distribution system (Figure 4.2). Electron bun ches channeled down the electron beamline 1 
pass through the undulators SASE1 and SASE3,  producing respectively hard x-ray photons 
with 0.1 nm wavelength (SASE1) and softer x-ray photons with 0.4 -1.6 nm wavelength 
(SASE3), by the SASE free electron laser process. After going through SASE3, electrons are 
deviated towards a beam dump. Electron bunche s channeled through the electron beamline 2 
are led through the undulator SASE2, where ha rd x-ray photons with wavelengths 0.1-0.4 nm 
are produced by the SASE process; and then through the undulators U1 and U2, before ending 
in the second beam dump. In U1 and U2, ve ry hard x-ray photons (wavelengths down to 
0.014 and 0.06 nm, respectively) are generated by  the spontaneous emission process. The 
photons generated by the five undulators are tr ansported through the respective photon beam 
line to the Experimental Hall, where they are fed into ten experimental stations. Reducing the 
electron energy at the end of the accelerator would generate longer wavelengths, in case they 


--- Page 8 ---

vi Executive Summary
 
are required by some experiments; for example an electron energy of 10 GeV would 
correspond to x-rays of 4.9 nm wavelength from the SASE3 undulator. 
 
SASE 2
tunable, planar
0.1 – 0.4 nm
SASE 1
tunable, planar
0.1 nm
SASE 3
tunable, helical
0.4 – 1.6 nm
electrons
17.5 GeV
e-
e-
Experiments
U 1
U 2
SASE 2
tunable, planar
0.1 – 0.4 nm
SASE 1
tunable, planar
0.1 nm
SASE 3
tunable, helical
0.4 – 1.6 nm
electrons
17.5 GeV
e-
e-
Experiments
U 1
U 2
 
 
Figure 4.2: Schematic view of the branching of electron (black) and photon (red) beamlines 
through the different SASE and spontaneous emission undulators. Electron beamlines 
terminate into the two beam dumps, photon beamlines into the Experimental Hall. 
 
The installation and commissioning of the a ccelerator, the undulators, beamlines and 
experimental stations will take place gradually, according to a strategy for the achievement of 
intermediate and final goals of the Facility which was established with the advice of the 
Scientific and Technical Issues (STI) Working Group. 
The first electron beamline and the SASE1 undulator are going to be installed first. 
Commissioning of the accelerator and of the SASE1 undulator, beamline and first station is 
pursued, in parallel with installation of the other electron branch, until the first set of 
intermediate goals (see Table 4.1) is reached. 
  
As recommended by the STI Working Group, the following criteria for the start of 
operation of the accelerator complex and the SASE radiators and beamlines were adopted: 
 
• The accelerator complex and SASE1 start operation when on SASE1 a photon beam is 
obtained with the intermediate values of Table 4.1, and sufficient equipment is 
installed and commissioned to perform first scientific experiments.  
• SASE2 starts operation when the same crite ria as above are fulfilled, for wavelengths 
between 0.2 and 0.4 nm. 
• SASE3 starts operation when the same crite ria as above are fulfilled, for wavelengths 
between 2 and 6 nm. 
 
Following the positive experience of the FLASH facility, developments towards the final 
project goals on all beamlines will proceed in parallel with early user operation, as soon as the 
criteria stated above are fulfilled. 
 
 


--- Page 9 ---

Executive Summary vii
 
Parameter 
SASE1    
Intermediate 
Values 
SASE1 Final  
Project Values Units 
Wavelength < 0.2 0.1 nm 
Peak Brilliance 10 30 5×10 33 Photons/s/mm2/ 
mrad2/0.1%BW
Dimension at sample (no optics) < 1.0 ~ 0.6 mm 2, FWHM 
Positional Stability 50 10 % of beam 
size, rms 
Photon Energy Stability ~ 0.1 ~ 0.1 % 
Shot-to-Shot Intensity 
Fluctuations Up to a factor 10 0.3 – 0.5 Dimensionless, 
Peak-to-Peak 
     
Table 4.1: Intermediate and final project values for the accelerator and SASE1 undulator and 
corresponding photon beamline. 
 
 
5 Cost, Schedule and Personnel 
5.1 Cost of the Project 
All costs from the project preparation to the commissioning phase (i.e. prior to the start of 
operation) have to be summed up in order to determine the total project construction cost 
(TPCC). There will be a period of about 2.5 y ears during which an overlap of construction, 
commissioning and operation will occur (see also the discussion of time schedule and budget 
profile below). The contributions to the TPCC, summarized in table 5.1, are: 
 
• The project preparation costs. These are the expenses since the XFEL Memorandum 
of Understanding came into effect (end of  2004) by DESY and by those institutes 
which have concluded collaboration contracts with DESY under the XFEL MoU. 
• The construction costs in the proper sense,  of the accelerator, the undulators, the 
photon beamlines, scientific instruments, civil engineering and technical infrastructure 
of the European XFEL Facility, including capital investment and manpower. 
• The cost for commissioning the facility with beam. 
• An addition to the personnel cost, in orde r to take into account allowances for 
personnel moving from their home country to work at the XFEL company. 
• An additional personnel cost overhead, ta king account of the XFEL company’s 
management & support costs. 
 
Recurrent costs during the construction in the pr oper sense (electricity, water, helium) are 
not included in the TPCC, since they will be covered by the DESY operation budget free of 
charge to the XFEL project. Costs related to  land acquisition are also not included in the 
TPCC, since Germany offered to provide the ground free of charge to the project. 
 


--- Page 10 ---

viii Executive Summary 
 
Project preparation  38.8 M€ 
Project construction, capital investment 736.3 M€ 
Project construction, personnel 250.1 M€ 
Total construction cost 986.4 M€ 
Beam commissioning 56.4 M€ 
Total Project Cost 1,081.6 M€   
Table 5.1: Total project construction cost, including preparation – commissioning phases. All 
cost figures are on the price basis of the year 2005. . - The original Table 5.1 of the TDR has 
been slightly re-arranged: the additional personnel cost (allowances) and the additional 
management overhead of the XFEL GmbH, initially shown in separate lines of the table, are 
now included in the cost for construction and commissioning. 
 
As described in detail in chapter 10, the breakdown of this cost between the major 
components of the facility, is displayed in Figure 5.1. 
 
XFEL construction cost distribution
27%
9%
24%4%
19%
17% Linac
Acc sub-systems
Undulator & photon
Control & operation
Infrastructure
Civil construction
 
Figure 5.1:  Breakdown of the proper constructi on costs (sum of c apital investment and 
personnel cost) into the work package groups corresponding to the main components of the 
facility. 
 
An analysis of the risk of overspend was pe rformed according to gui delines specified by 
the Full Costing Issues (FCI) subgroup of the Administration and Financial Issues (AFI) 
Working Group. The resulting risk budget (8% of the proper construction costs) amounts to 
78 M€, and is the additional figur e required to bring the probability of successful completion 
of the Facility within budget to 98%. 
The estimated yearly operation costs of the F acility, after the end of  all construction, are 
83.6 M€, including all recurrent costs for op eration, maintenance and refurbishing, and 
support of the international us er activities, plus a PhD stude nt and a visiting scientists 
program.


--- Page 11 ---

Executive Summary ix
 
5.2 Project Time Schedule 
The time schedule for the project is presented in  Figure 5.2, which assumes that the official 
start of the project construction is January 2007. For each of the major parts of the facility, 
phases during construction (which can partially overlap in time) can be defined as: 
 
• Design, prototyping and industrialization 
• Fabrication (including pre-series) 
• Installation 
• Commissioning (technical and with beam) 
 
In summary, the construction schedule provides for the milestone of first beam into the 
linac to be met 6.5 years after the start of construction. At this point in time, the first branch of 
beam lines with the SASE1 undulator will also have been installed. Beam commissioning will 
then progress until the intermediate performance milestones of SASE1 radiation are reached, 
7.5 years after the start of construction. This beamline will then become operational for first 
experiments. Commissioning of the other beamlines follows. 
5.3 Budget Profile 
With the different contributions to the TP CC as summarized above, the construction time 
schedule and the operation costs as  described in chapter 8, a comp lete budget profile for all 
phases from preparation to operation can be constr ucted. The result is displayed in figure 5.3 
showing the yearly budget from 2005 – 2016 on the price basis of the year 2005 (i.e. without 
applying an escalation to take inflation into account). 
 
European XFEL budget profile
0
50,000
100,000
150,000
200,000
250,000
y20
05
y2006 y200
7
y20
08
y2009 y2010 y20
11
y2012 y2013 y201
4
y2015 y2016
kEURO
Operation
Commissioning
Construction
Preparation
 
 
Figure 5.3: Budget profile (sum of capital inve stment and personnel cost on year 2005 price 
basis) from preparation to operation phase of the project. 
 
Personnel costs, as given explicitly in Table 5.1 and implicitly in Figure 5.3 correspond to the 
cost of the personnel hired by the Facility, plus the personnel costs for those work packages of 
the project, which are provided as an in-kind cont ribution by laboratories of the participating 
countries. 


--- Page 12 ---

x  Executive Summary
 
y2007 y2008 y2009 y2010 y2011 y2012 y2013 y2014 y2015
Civil construction
Linac
Accelerator sub-systems
Technical Infrastruct.
Operation & control
Undulator & photon b.l.
1st beam injector
1st beam linac
SASE1 gain at 0.2nm
all beam lines oper.
design, prototyping fabrication (incl. installation commissioning operation
 & industrialization pre-series) (tech. & beam)  
 
Figure 5.2: Sketch of the schedule for the main components of the Facility from start of construction to beginning of operation. 
[Schedule taken from XFEL Technical Design Report, July 2006] 


--- Page 13 ---

 
 
 
 
 
Part B of  
Technical Document 1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCENARIO FOR THE RAPID START-UP 
of the  
EUROPEAN XFEL FACILITY 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 14 ---

Scenario for rapid start-up 
May 30, 2007 
Scenario for the rapid start-up  
of the European XFEL Facility  
 
Basic Features of the Start-up Reference Configuration 
The entire photon spectrum specified in the TDR will be made available, however the start-up 
configuration will comprise only three photon beamlines (inst ead of five) and six experi-
mental stations (instead of ten). The performan ces of the accelerator as specified in the TDR 
are maintained, so that the facility can reach the reference parameters for operation at 0.1 nm 
photon wavelength. However, the energy surplus of the accelerator with respect to the 
standard mode (17.5 GeV) will be removed. Cost reductions are planned to be made in such a 
way that the start-up configuration remains expandable to the Facility specified in the TDR. 
All suppressed or reduced items can be inserted back, during the construction period or later, 
depending on whether and when the required f unding will become available. However, in 
order to avoid additional effort and cost, the decision to reinstall a certain item has to be taken 
within a certain time frame. These critical points in time are indicated below for the main 
reduction items. 
Details on cost reductions and their impact 
Accelerator complex 
Four units (four accelerator modules and one radio frequency station per unit) in the main 
section of the linac (after the 2
nd bunch compression stage) will not be installed. This reduces 
the linac design energy from 20 to 17.5 GeV and the number of reserve units from two to one 
in this part of the accelerator (another rese rve unit remains in the section between the bunch 
compressors). Operation at the reference energy of 17.5 GeV with the TDR reference 
parameters is guaranteed. However, the possibility of increasing the beam energy and 
repetition rate is severely restricted. The decision to install the initially suppressed units 
would have to be taken by the time the tender pr ocess for linac components is launched (mid-
2008). 
The complete system of electron beamlines up to the beam dumps will be built as part of start-
up configuration, whereas the installation of some special beam diagnostics will be postponed. 
Undulators and Experiments 
A reduction in the number of undulators from five  to three is considered. The number of 
experimental stations with thei r infrastructure is correspondingly reduced (s ix instead of ten). 
Further cuts in experimental facilities affect  optical laser installati ons, sample environment 
R&D, sample preparation laboratories, speci fic instrumentation (all reduced by 50%) and 
generic detector R&D (40%). One out of th ree full developments for area detectors and 
particle detectors will be delayed until the upgrade to the full project. Later extension towards 
the initial design remains possible. The followi ng figure illustrates one possibility of coping 
with this change. It aims at having the same spectral interval of photon  energies covered as 
foreseen in the TDR, although with reduced possibility of parallel exploitation of instruments. 
In the figure, the option to move SASE 3 from its original position to the position of U 1 is 
indicated.  


--- Page 15 ---

Scenario for rapid start-up 
May 30, 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1: Option for undulator layout in Step 1 of the XFEL 
 
SASE 1 
tunable, planar
0.1 nm 
SASE 2 
tunable, planar
0.1 – 0.4 nm 
U 2 
U 1 
e-  
electrons 
17.5 GeV 
Experiments SASE 3
tunable, helical
0.4 – 1.6 nm 
e-  
not installed
This could be advantageous in case the recovery of the SASE 2 beam line has to be postponed 
for a longer time, because the two initially installed SASE beam lines could be operated in the 
two separate electron beam lines, providing more operational flexibility. Further below in this 
document, four possible variations of the above  reference scenario are outlined, showing that 
there is still great flex ibility in the choice of photon beam lines and st ations within the first 
step of the project.  The time line for deciding the undul ator number and configuration is 
determined by the time of the first order to be placed. This order is currently scheduled for the 
second half of 2009. Earlier impacts are however  expected for the development of area 
detectors, where a decision is due during the first half of 2007. 
Technical Infrastructure 
Instead of constructing a new liquid helium plant, the existing HERA plant shall be 
refurbished and upgraded. Two out of three liqu efier units will be used  for XFEL, the other 
one for FLASH. This will lead to a reduced redu ndancy in case of failures, but one of the two 
units is still sufficient to keep the linac cold a nd even to operate it with  restricted parameters. 
DESY looses the option to use part of the plant for other purposes.  
The module test facility will be reduced by merging the (originally separate) horizontal cavity 
test stand with one of the three module test stations. Thus only two module test stands are 
available during the time when single cavity test s take place in the horizontal cryostat. Since 
this is expected to happen only during the initi al phase of module production at low rate, it is 
not expected to cause delays in the series production and testing of accelerator modules.  
The possible decision to restore these reduction items is urgent (mid – end 2007). 
Buildings 
The layout of the undergr ound buildings is preserved complete ly, in order to be able to 
expand the start-up configuration to  the Facility specified in th e TDR. The size of the Office 
Building and of the canteen at the Schenefeld Ca mpus can be reduced, but later extensions of 
these buildings remain possible. The hall for a new cryogenic plant is removed. 
A decision to implement the originally planned full-size Campus buildings would have to be 
taken at the time of the calls fo r tender (in 2008), or at the la test in mid 2009, if a call for 
tender in tranches is envisaged. 
 


--- Page 16 ---

Scenario for rapid start-up 
May 30, 2007 
 
Cost estimation 
The start-up configuration, based on these assumptions, allows a cost reduction of approxi-
mately 137 M€ with respect to the 986 M€ for the full facility set ou t in the TDR and in 
Annex 3 to the Convention. The cost reduc tion refers to 106.9 M€ under investments and 
30.1 M€ under Personnel, which leaves  construction costs of 849.3 M€ (in 2005 prices)  still 
to be covered. A breakdown of the cost reductions is given in the table below.  
 
 
Cost reduction1  
with respect to 
Technical Design Report 
Reduced  
construction cost1  
(Investment + Personnel) 
Work package group 
under 
Investment
under 
Personnel 
of XFEL Facility in  
start-up configuration 
WPG1 Linac 24,9 4,0 231,2 
WPG2 Accelerator sub-systems 1,6 1,1 83,6 
WPG3 Undulators & photon beam lines 57,9 18,5 149,5 
WPG4 Control & operation 0,2 0,8 38,4 
WPG5 Infrastructure 15,2 2,4 171,7 
WPG6 Site & Buildings 7,1 0 161,6 
GmbH personnel additional overhead  3,3 13,3 
Total: 106,9 30,1 849,3 
1 (in M€, year 2005 price basis) 
 
Alternative scenarios for the Start-up Facility 
 
In the following paragraphs, alternative scenarios for the realisation of a start-up configuration 
of the European XFEL are discussed. These altern atives show that the budget for the start-up 
configuration of the European XFEL, and in particular the reduced  budget for the photon 
beam systems, still offers the flexibility required to respond to the requests of the scientific 
community. Since the final decision for one of these options is not immediately required (if 
necessary at all), it will be thoroughly discu ssed with representatives of the scientific 
communities involved. 
The cost figures given are relative to the numbers quoted above for the reference scenario. 
Alternative Scenario A 
In this scenario only a moderate modification is  applied, in that, instead of SASE 1, the gap-
tuneable device SASE 2 is initially installe d. This would allow operating the accelerator at 
constant energy, while tuning the photon energy by gap variation of the undulator. To cope 
with the higher cost of SASE 2 with respect to SASE 1, the soft X-ray FEL undulator SASE 3 
is not built in helica l technology, but as a more conventio nal planar device. Reduced R&D 
and construction costs for the planar devices al low substantial savings. A later extension to a 
 


--- Page 17 ---

Scenario for rapid start-up 
May 30, 2007 
 
helical FEL providing circular polarized radiation could be implemented by replacing only the 
undulator segments in the final gain lengths.  
The cost for this scenario is 2.7 M€ lower than the reference one. The time line to decide in 
favour of this scenario depe nds on the number of undulator se gments to be ordered (mid 
2009) and the R&D phase for the helical undulators (latest start end 2008).  
Alternative Scenario B 
In this scenario emphasis is given to the supply of hard X -ray FEL radiation, by keeping both 
hard X-ray FELs SASE 1 and SASE 2. To compensate for the higher cost of these devices, no 
other undulators will be built during the first step of the project. However, since the 
experimental hall provides sufficient space, it is still possible to bu ild six instruments around 
these two undulators. Considerable resources for undulator and beamline could be used in this 
scenario to increase the budget for sample environment and detector R&D. 
This cost for this scenario is 1.1 M€ lower than the reference one. This scenario can be 
upgraded to full scale at any mo ment without specific cost increase. However, for the SASE 3 
helical undulator, it is to be kept in mind that an R&D phase must start 2.5 years prior to 
installation date.  
Alternative Scenario C 
In this scenario all three F EL undulators SASE 1, SASE 2 and SA SE 3 are kept in the first 
step of the full project. The soft X-ray FEL undul ator is considered to have planar magnetic 
field configuration (see Scenario A.). In order to cover the increased cost for undulators, it is 
proposed that the number of inst ruments be reduced from six to  four. One could envisage to 
install these four instruments at the hard X-ray FEL beamlines of SASE 1 and SASE 2, and to 
provide an open port at the soft X-ray beamlin e, where experiment groups could assemble 
their own apparatuses (FLASH concept). Alte rnatively, scientific instruments on SASE 3 
could be built with funds provided by consortia of experimentalists.  
The cost for this scenario is 0.9 M€ lower than the reference one. This scenario can be 
upgraded to full scale at any moment without  specific cost incr ease. For the helical 
configuration of SASE 3 it is valid what is written under scenario A. 
Conclusion 
Construction costs of 850 M€ allow the facility to  be built in a start-up configuration with the 
following features: 
1.  It can later be expanded to recover the full facility as specified in the TDR, with no 
additional costs if the corresponding decisions are taken early enough. 
2.  It offers a variety of possibilities in the choice of the radiators in the first step, and 
therefore in the corresponding e xperimental program, with more or less priority given to 
hard vs. soft X-rays, coherence vs. spontaneous emission, etc. 
 
 
 