--- Page 1 ---
Tourism Diversification and Resilience in The Gambia (P177179)
Implementation Support Review
and Business Ready (B-READY) Analytics
May 10, 2024
AIDE-MÉMOIRE
I. INTRODUCTION
1. A World Bank (WB) team 1 visited Banjul, The Gambia, from April 29 to May 10, 2024, to conduct
implementation support activities for the Tourism Diversification and Resilience (TDR) in The Gambia Project
(P177179). The mission’s objectives included discussions on overall project implementation, with a specific focus
on the critical path for Component 2: Infrastructure support for t he diversification and resilience of the tourism
sector, updating the implementation plan, reviewing financial management compliance, introducing the new co -
Task Team Leader (co -TTL), hosting an ecotourism regional workshop, organizing a series of capacity building
workshops on Business Ready (B-READY), and kickstarting the activities under the Women Entrepreneurs Finance
Initiative (WeFi).
2. This Aide Mémoire summarizes the mission’s findings and agreements and provides an update on the status
of the TDR project’s implementation. The World Bank team expresses gratitude to the Government of The
Gambia, particularly the Honorable Minister of Finance and Economy (MoFEA), Minister of Tourism and Culture
(MoTC), their respective Permanent Secretaries (PS), and all key stakeholders, for their leadership and support
throughout the mission.
3. The mission proposes to upgrade the performance ratings for Component 1, Project Management and
Procurement, from ‘Moderately Unsatisfactory’ to ‘Moderately Satisfactory’ due to significant progress in project
implementation (details are presented in the sections below).
II. KEY PROJECT DATA AND RATINGS

Project Data Project Data USD (millions)
Approval Date 09-Jun-2022 Closing Date 30-Jun-2027
Signature Date 05-Jul-2022 Original Project $68.00
Amount
Effectiveness Date 03-Oct-2022 Total Disbursement $7.42
Mid-Term Review (Planned) 02-Dec-2024 Disbursement in FY $2.40

Project Ratings: March 22, 2024 ISR This Mission
Progress towards achievement of PDO ⚫Moderately Satisfactory ⚫Moderately Satisfactory
Overall Implementation Progress (IP) ⚫Moderately Satisfactory ⚫Moderately Satisfactory
Component 1: Policy framework and MSME participation ⚫Moderately Unsatisfactory ⚫Moderately Satisfactory
Component 2: Infrastructure support ⚫Moderately Satisfactory ⚫Moderately Satisfactory
Project Management ⚫Moderately Unsatisfactory ⚫Moderately Satisfactory
Monitoring and Evaluation ⚫Moderately Satisfactory ⚫Moderately Satisfactory
Procurement ⚫Moderately Unsatisfactory ⚫Moderately Satisfactory
Financial Management ⚫Satisfactory ⚫Satisfactory

1 The mission consisted of Douglas Pearce (Practice Manager, EAWF1); Rafael Pardo (Senior Financial Sector Specialist and
TTL); Keren Charles (Senior DRM Specialist, co-TTL, outgoing); Isabelle Kane (Senior DRM Specialist and co-TTL, incoming);
Anupa A. Pant (Private Sector Specialist and co-TTL); Jose Miguel Villascusa Cerezo (Tourism Consultant); Brahim Hamed
(Senior Procurement Specialist); Scott Ferguson (Senior Flood Risk Management Consultant); and Fabio Cian (DRM
Consultant). Nancy Njie (Environmental Consultant) and Momodou Sey (Consultant) joined from The Gambia. Frederic
Meunier (Economist); Kaliza Karuretwa (Senior Private Sector Specialist) and Aji Oumie Jallow (Administrative Assistant)
joined for the B-READY workshops. Louise Twining-Ward (Senior Private Sector Specialist and Tourism Technical Lead) joined
a week after to host an ecotourism regional workshop and provide tourism implementation support to the PIU .


--- Page 2 ---
Overall ESS Performance ⚫Satisfactory ⚫Satisfactory
III. IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS AND KEY FINDINGS
4. The TDR has been under implementation for nineteen months since its effective date. A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), Project Steering Committee (PSC), and two Technical Working Groups (TWG) have
been established. Essential governing documents have been produced, and the Terms of Reference (ToRs) for
critical activities have been finalized. Implementation pace has picked up and the project is on track towards the
achievement of the PDO.
5. The WB team conducted a scenario analysis of the implementation plan to assess the risks of timely
completion of the coastal works. The analysis produced both optimistic and worst-case scenarios, which helped
to assess the likelihood of finishing the coastal works within the current project timeline. This timeline includes
various phases: feasibility studies, pre-design and design, environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs),
and procurement processes. The WB team identified critical milestones and strategies to optimize the
implementation planning for earlier coastal protection works initiation. The WB team will monitor the progress of
these milestones, including an assessment of progress and status of deliverables by the engineering firm to
reevaluate sub-component risks during the next supervision mission during the third quarter of 2024 (Q1 FY25).
6. The WB team also conducted a multi-stakeholder workshop focused on coastal protection and its relevance
to the tourism sector. The workshop was well-received. It was also agreed that a study trip to Saly, Senegal, would
be organized in the coming months to observe the WB-funded coastal protection efforts in the resort area, in
coordination with the World Bank.
IV. TDR PROJECT STATUS AND DECISIONS PER COMPONENT / ACTIVITY
Component 1: Policy framework and MSME participation (US$13 million)
Subcomponent 1a: Improved institutional capacity for data-driven planning, marketing, and branding (US$3.875
million)
Statistics and Data for Tourism Activities (US$1.15 million)
7. During the mission, the WB team confirmed the successful progress of the pilot training activities that
occurred from April 29th to May 3rd. The outcomes of this sub-activity will inform the allocation and scope for
the subsequent two activities: (ii) tourism statistical capacity building, and (iii) acquisition of equipment for
tourism statistical data collection and analysis.
Development and Implementation of a Tourism Marketing Strategy for The Gambia (US$2.025 million)
8. During the mission, technical proposals submitted by international firms were opened. Over the subsequent
week, the PIU evaluation committee convened and submitted the evaluation form to the WB for No Objection.
The WB team issued its No Objection on May 14th, 2024. The financial proposals were opened on May 15th. The
PIU is currently preparing the final evaluation report and recommendations.
GTHI Support to address the problem of “tourism brain drain ” (US$450,000)
9. The WB team provided feedback on the Capacity Assessment. There is consensus on the report’s shortcomings
and some concerns regarding the quality and technical deliverables. The team also met with the GTHI to gauge
their satisfaction and involvement with the ongoing work. While they expressed high satisfaction with the
collaboration on the Kitchen design, they highlighted the need for more effective engagement in curriculum
development. The tourism specialist will specifically focus on providing assistance with this aspect.
Short-Term Recovery Plan (US$250,000)

2


--- Page 3 ---
10. The short-term recovery plan includes three sub-activities: (i) training for beach workers, bird watching guides,
fruit sellers, and customer service personnel; (ii) the Gambian Authorities’ outreach and marketing mission to
Nigeria; and (iii) the international visitor survey.
(i) The training has been successfully contracted and is expected to be completed within three months. The WB
team urged the PIU to ensure a high proportion of women are trained, in line with the findings of the recent
PROBLUE gender assessment shared with the PIU.
(ii) The team had a multi-stakeholder roundtable discussion to resolve differences in approach and budget for the
Gambian authorities’ outreach and marketing mission to Nigeria. These issues were successfully settled, the
concept note, and budget were finalized, and the WB provided its No Objection.
(iii) The team confirmed the successful implementation of the International Visitor Survey (IVS) at Banjul
International Airport, marking the first IVS for The Gambia. The results are highly anticipated, with the analysis
expected in the week of May 25th.
Subcomponent 1b: Increase participation of tourism MSMEs within the selected destinations (US$9 million)
Technical and compliance support to tourism MSMEs (US$4 million)
11. The component is beginning to show progress with the hiring and onboarding of the Management Company
(MC), and the finalization of the inception report, which details the sequence of activities, timelines, and
deliverables for the coming year. Although some tasks from the last mission are complete, some important
activities such as signing of MoUs with hotels on su pplier development program are still pending. Interventions
during the mission, however, have helped to address many of the challenges, and the outstanding tasks are
expected to be completed within the next quarter. These tasks include setting up the MC’s office and onboarding
staff, finalizing the Lead Firm’s needs assessment and priorities, orienting Business Development Managers
(BDMs), and screening the first cohort of 50 SMEs. The WB team has stressed the need to take necessary measures
to avoid further delays and to ensure the timely completion of activities as outlined in the inception report. The
PIU has agreed to bi-weekly progress meetings with the MC, and the Tourism Specialist is fully briefed on the
component’s importance to the project, ensuring focused support.
Matching grants to support tourism value chain participation for MSMEs (US$5 million)
12. This activity is scheduled to begin six months after the completion of capacity building by the selected MSMEs,
approximately , around October 2024.
Component 2: Infrastructure support for the diversification and resilience of the tourism sector (US$50 million)
13. After experiencing significant delays, the activities within sub-component 2a have progressed with the
recruitment of the engineering firm Royal HaskoningDHV (RH) and the launching of the coastal protection
infrastructure design studies. The PIU analyzed the contracts for this component and reported that out of the 14
contracts expected under this component, 8 have been signed or are in progress. These account for a commitment
of US$2.6 million, approximately 5% of the allocated budget for this component. Most of the disbursement is
expected to occur once the infrastructure works commence, which is projected to happen within the next two
years.
Subcomponent 2a: Protection, rehabilitation, and integrated management of coastal areas (US$45 million)
14. The mission reviewed and updated the implementation plan, emphasizing the reduction of procurement
timelines and the acceleration of activities. However, if the PIU can reach an agreement with RH, the engineering
firm, to expedite the delivery, particularly for the less complex Kunta Kinteh site, civil works for this sub-
component could start as early as February/March 2025 at this site. The mission also highlighted the importance
of developing the environmental and social (E&S) instruments from the early stages of the preliminary design to

3


--- Page 4 ---
prevent delays in the initiation of works. The timeline for the E&S instruments has also been mapped in the revised
implementation plan (Annex 1). Should the team determine that the sub-component is at risk, it will contemplate
downgrading the sub-component and elevating its risk profile.
Preliminary design of coastal Beaches Fajara-SeneGambia and Kunta Kinteh Island (US$900,000.00)
15. This activity is ongoing with the inception report expected from RH in May 2024. The activity involves
conducting feasibility studies and developing pre-designs, detailed design, and biding documents for coastal
protection in the Kunta Kinteh site. Based on the current timeline, the pre-designs are expected by April 2025;
However, the PIU and GAMWORKS will work with the firm to reduce this timeline to allow earlier completion
design studies and commencements of civil works.
16. The inception report from RH expected for May 2024 has been shared (post-mission). The coastal protection
works for the Kotu site would take longer to be completed. Because of these works’ complexity, RH’s contract
only includes the feasibility and preliminary design studies at this stage. The complementary studies including
preparation of detailed design and biding documents would be procured later, once the preliminary design stage
deliver clear data and engineering solution.
Subcomponent 2b: Integrated tourism product development and diversification of selected Tourist Development
Areas (TDAs) (US$5 million)
Demand and Destination Sites evaluation and assessment (US$250,000)
17. The objective of this activity is to assess key tourism sites, prioritize them, and develop a costed plan for
enhancement for those selected. The consultants’ mission, which took place from March 6 to 25, 2024, has
produced its first deliverable: the Draft Destination Long List Report was submitted on April 19. Despite a slight
delay as per the Implementation Plan, its quality was high, necessitating only minor comments. The Final
Destination Long List is expected by the end of May. The next steps include an in-depth Destination Assessment
report defining the top 10 shortlisted sites. The final deliverable, a Destination Assessment and accompanying
presentation, is scheduled for completion on July 12, 2024, and will provide the Government with a concrete
investment plan for the key tourism sites, with dissemination planned by August 2, 2024.
18. There is also a need to clarify the scope of the activity in relation to the feasibility and design work underway
at the Kunta Kinteh site, due to its apparent overlap. The pending issue is whether the Albreda and Juffreh areas
are included in both studies and, if so, how to address any redundancy. A meeting with the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) to resolve this will be arranged by the end of May 2024.
Assessment of River Jetties (US$295,000)
19. The objective of this activity is to evaluate the jetties along the River Gambia to identify which should be
prioritized for rehabilitation or reconstruction. This will include identifying potential sites for new jetties and
preparing both preliminary and detailed design studies, along with bidding documents for the civil works. The
activity, which is currently under contract is set to begin with an inception mission from RH firm in May 2024. The
mission recommended that the timeline for these studies could be reduced, and the works could possibly be
combined under the same contract as the coastal protection efforts on Kunta Kinteh Island, which include the
rehabilitation or reconstruction of its two jetties.
GTHI Kitchen Expansion Design and Supervision (US$35,000)
20. The activity, which is contracted and ongoing, has been met with a high level of satisfaction from GTHI.
However, there have been delays in receiving feedback, which GTHI has committed to addressing in the future.
The consultant has completed the designs and, following a review by GAMWORKS, revisions are made to integrate
GTHI’s feedback. The final designs are now expected by June 2024. After this, the procurement process for the
necessary works and goods will be initiated. During a field visit, GTHI indicated the need for new parts for the

4


--- Page 5 ---
laundry training machines located adjacent to the new kitchen and requested support for this. Additionally, a
historic tree located in the GTHI parking area requires additional protection measures prior to the start of work,
which requires consultation with environmental standards experts. The works are expected to start by July 2024.
Gender Assessment of the Tourism Sector in The Gambia (US$28,000):
21. The ongoing assessment aims to expand upon the findings of the recent gender assessment conducted under
the PROBLUE trust fund. It will identify and document existing gender disparities and significant gender-related
challenges at the sites identified for upgrading.
Component 3: Project management, monitoring and evaluation (US$5 million)
Procurement:
22. The PIU has consistently updated the procurement plan using the Systematic Tracking of Exchanges in
Procurement (STEP) tool. STEP analysis indicates that out of nineteen recorded procurement activities, thirteen
are for consulting services, five for goods, and one for non-consulting services. The Project Procurement Strategy
for Development (PPSD), approved by the Bank, is accessible on STEP, with all relevant notices published
accordingly.
23. In terms of contract implementation, the mission noted that twelve activities have signed contracts within the
system, including those for the MC, GAMWORKS, and the feasibility studies, while seven activities are facing delays
in the procurement process.
24. The mission acknowledged the improved use of STEP since their last visit. Nonetheless, they recommend
further enhancements in the system’s data accuracy, completeness, and timeliness, especially regarding contract
administration, including payment, delivery, and completion details.
25. To accelerate implementation of Component 2 and works contracts, the PIU should: (a) expedite the feasibility
studies to finalize design and technical specifications promptly, (b) improve the procurement process and ensure
swift evaluation of bids and proposals in collaboration with the procurement committee, (c) keep STEP
information current and precise, and (d) ensure close collaboration between PIU staff and project stakeholders,
as stipulated in the project implementation manual.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E):
26. A follow up meeting will be held with the M&E expert to review the MEMIS system for capturing M&E results.
Project Implementation Unit / Tourism Specialist:
27. The PIU’s Tourism Specialist joined the mission. The team facilitated an introductory meeting between the
new Permanent Secretary (PS) and the GT Board to acquaint them with the specialist. The PS has promptly
involved the specialist in updating the tourism policy and in formulating an action plan and budget for its
implementation. The specialist will closely monitor activities that are experiencing difficulties or delays, as well as
those requiring expertise not readily available within the PIU, such as curriculum development, MSME support,
and marketing.
V. OTHER ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT DURING THE MISSION
28. Business READY: From April 22nd – 25th, 2024, the WB team, in coordination with the Ministry of Trade,
Industry, Regional Integration and Employment (MoTIE), organized a series of thematic workshops on each of the
new B-READY topics and initiated the reorganization of the reform delivery on 10 B-READY topics. The workshop
also provided an outcome of the recent Enterprise Survey Findings and the Gambia Economic Update. The Gambia
is among the first 51 economies measured in the B -READY report that will be published on September 25, 2024.
For the first report, the Government of the Gambia was not aware of the processes and mechanisms used in the
B-READY assessment. The World Bank team emphasized the need to be better prepared for the second report

5


--- Page 6 ---
that will start in September 2024, particularly in appointing focal points for each technical working group
responsible for responding to the questionnaires on behalf of the Gambian Government. The workshop identified
some potential quick wins particularly around Transparency. The Gambia currently does not publish most of the
regulatory information measured by B-READY. The team had a debriefing meeting with Honorable Baboucarr
Ousmaila Joof, Minister of Trade, Industry, Regional Integration & Employment and emphasized the need to
secure high level political commitment to mobilize participation of wider group of participants. The Ministry has
requested for a follow up technical assistance to support working groups on reviewing and responding to the
questionnaires and identification of areas of improvement in preparation for a reform action plan.
29. Field visit to Kunta Kinteh Island: The WB team visited Kunta Kinteh Island as part of a field visit to review
areas of future intervention of the project. The WB team also visited sections of the West Coast beaches, which
are also an area of future intervention under Component 2a.
30. Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative (WeFi Sahel-The Gambia): The WB team is leveraging the WeFi
funding to enhance the linkages agenda, specifically by promoting sourcing partnerships between women-led
cooperatives and tourism lead-firms. The consultants have been recruited and are in the process of screening 20
core groups of women led rural enterprises in collaboration with the Gambia Inclusive and Resilient Agricultural
Value Chain Development Project (GIRAV). For the next 10 months, the project will adopt IFC’s Agribusiness
Leadership Program (ALP) to provide coaching to women owned cooperatives, on key performance areas such as
financial management, market, leadership skills and diversity.
31. West Africa Ecotourism Network (WAEN) Workshop: The WAEN event took place at Bakadaji Hotel in
Serrakunda on May 6th and 7th, inaugurated by the Honorable Abdoulie Jobe, MoTC. A total of 278 individuals
registered for the event online, with over 50 attendees from across the region participating in person, including
representatives from the GT Board, Hotel Association, ecotourism operators, and tourism and development
students from The Gambia, among others. The event featured eight one-hour Masterclasses on various
ecotourism-related topics such as ecolodge design, coastal resilience, ecotour design, customer communication,
and community-based tourism. These sessions were recorded and will be made available on the WAEN website.
Participants were highly engaged and expressed satisfaction with both the organization of the event and the
quality of the presentations. The event received support from PROBLUE, PPIAF, and the WACA project.
VI. NEXT STEPS AND AGREED ACTIONS
32. The next Implementation Support Mission, set for early Q3 2024 (Q1 FY25), will assess progress on agreed
actions, with a focus on the RH firm's feasibility studies.
Actions Due Date

1 Complete the Gambian Authorities’ outreach and marketing mission to Nigeria May 2024
2 Agree on budget for tourism IT and data equipment May 2024
3 Start the short-term training with a focus on recruiting women participants June 2024
4 Setting up the MC’s office and onboarding staff June 2024
5 Finalizing the Lead Firm’s needs assessment and priorities June 2024
6 Orienting Business Development Managers (BDMs) June 2024
7 Screening the first cohort of 50 SMEs. July 2024
8 Complete the quality review of the inception report for the coastal protection design study and get June 2024
a final version from the firm including clear agreed steps and timeline
9 Complete contracting of Marketing Firm July 2024
10 Plan and undertake Senegal coastal protection field trip Q3 2024
11 Finalize the recruitment of a coastal engineer technical assistant to support the PIU on coastal September
protection activities and supervision 2024

6


--- Page 7 ---
7


--- Page 8 ---
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Implementation plan for Component 2 revised based on lessons learned.

Key Milestones for Civil Works (Coastal and Kunta Kinteh)
End of
Coastal Works & Kunta Kinteh Island Feasibility Studies and Pre-Design: Jan-25
Coastal Works & Kunta Kinteh Island Detailed Design: Apr-25
Coastal Civil Works Procurement: Dec-25
Coastal Civil Works Supervision: Mar-27

Coastal Works ESIA, ESMP Procurement: May-25
Coastal Works ESIA, ESMP Assessments: Dec-25
Coastal Works & Kunta Kinteh Island RAP, LRP: Dec-25

Kunta Kinteh Island Works Procurement: Sep-25
Kunta Kinteh Island Works Supervision: Oct-26


--- Page 9 ---
Annex 2: Status of Agreements from the previous AM
Actions Due Date Responsible Status Update
1 Inception Report by the Feb 29, 2024 MC Complete. Inception report was received 28th February 2024.
Management Company
2 Agree with stakeholders and Mar 8, 2024 PIU/MoTC/GTB Complete. Contract signed 22nd March 2024
recruit the identified Tourism
Specialist
3 Award and sign the contract of the Mar 8, 2024 PIU Complete May 7th and under implementation.
Gender Assessment
4 Finalize agreement for Visitor Mar 8, 2024 PIU/Contractor Complete. Addendum Contract signed 28th February 2024, and
Survey activity is on course.
5 Finalize ToRs for capacity building Mar 8, 2024 PIU Complete. REoI launched 15th March 2024
of tourism workers and launch
REoI
6 MoU with Hotels on Supply Mar 22, 2024 MC Not complete. Management Company at Inception Report
Development finalization stage.
7 Inception report for the Mar 25, 2024 Consultant Complete After the Mission: Inception Report received on May 23
engineering consultant for studies
and pre-design
8 Finalize the recruitment of the Mar 29, 2024 PIU Complete. Contract signed 14th March 2024.
procurement assistant
9 Finalize the procurement process Mar 29, 2024 PIU Ongoing and near completion- Standstill period expires on the
of the firm to conduct the 31st May 2024.
Marketing Strategy
10 Complete Nigeria Study Tour Apr 30, 2024 PIU Ongoing (May 20th-30th 2024)

11 Complete Human Resource Apr 30, 2024 PIU On-going and near completion—negotiation completed and
Capacity Building (Short Term awaiting Contract Signature.
Recovery)

9


--- Page 10 ---
Annex 3: Mission Schedule

Mission Day 1: Monday, April 29, 2024
Project Implementation Unit Meeting of MoTC, PIU, GTB, NCAC, GTHI on review of outstanding issues in Aide Memoire
Project Implementation Unit Meeting with PIU on General Project Status and Introduce Isabelle Kane
Project Implementation Unit Detailed Meeting on Activities under Component 2 - Critical Path
Mission Day 2: Tuesday, April 30, 2024
Project Implementation Unit Coastal Resilience presentation from WB team
Royal HaskoningDHV / Cityscapes Feasibility Studies Meeting with RH
Ministry of Tourism and Culture Courtesy Meeting with Hon Minister, PS and DPS to brief on Mission Objectives
Project Disbursements & Procurement Detailed Meeting on Financial Management, Disbursements & Procurement
Mission Day 3: Wednesday, May 1, 2024
Visit to Kunta Kinteh Island Field Visit to Kunta Kinteh Island and Albreda
Mission Day 4: Thursday, May 2, 2024
PIU, GTB, NCAC, GTHI, MECCNAR, MOFEA, Meeting with stakeholders on coastal resilience & Presentation on Senegal case study (TBC)
NEA, WB team, MoTC,
Project Implementation Unit Discussion on component 1 & Management Company
Wrap up with PIU Mission conclusions & Next steps
WB/CMU Bank team meet with CMU
Mission Day 5: Friday, May 3, 2024
Debriefing with MoTC Mission conclusions & Next steps
Mission Week 2: May 6-7, 2024
WAEN Workshop
Mission Week 2: Monday, May 8-10, 2024
Project Implementation Unit and Tourism Implementation Support for Component 1
Stakeholders



--- Page 11 ---
Annex 1: List of officials met
Name Title Institution
Hon. Abdoulie Jobe Minister Ministry of Tourism and Culture (MoTC)
Cordu L. Jabang-Senghore Permanent Secretary Ministry of Tourism and Culture (MoTC)
Isatou Drammeh Deputy Permanent Secretary Ministry of Tourism and Culture (MoTC)
Hon. Rohey John-Manjang Minister Ministry of Environment, Climate Change and
Natural Resources (MECCNAR)
Mamadi Dampha Deputy Permanent Secretary Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
(MoFEA)
Momodou Lamin Singhateh Director General Gambia Tourism and Hospitality Institute (GTHI)
Sheriff Conteh Deputy Director General Gambia Tourism and Hospitality Institute (GTHI)
Abubacarr S. Camara Director General Gambia Tourism Board
Musa Dem Manager Gambia Tourism Board
Hassoum Ceesay Director General National Center for Arts and Culture (NCAC)
Mam Marie Njie National Environment Agency (NEA)
Elizabeth Carayol-Ndong Technical Director Gambia Agency for the Management of Public
Works (GAMWORKS)
Momodou BT Senghore Senior Project Manager Gambia Agency for the Management of Public
Works (GAMWORKS)
Momodou Ceesay Project Director TDR Project Implementation Unit
Brian T. Mullis Tourism Specialist TDR Project Implementation Unit
Musa D Kora Financial Management Specialist TDR Project Implementation Unit
Bakary E Kujabi Procurement Specialist TDR Project Implementation Unit
James B Mendy Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist TDR Project Implementation Unit
Fanta Jatta-Sowe Gender-Based Violence Specialist TDR Project Implementation Unit
Salimatou Taal Social Risk Management Specialist TDR Project Implementation Unit
Rohey Samba-Jallow Communication & Stakeholder TDR Project Implementation Unit
Engagement Specialist
Foday Fatty Environmental Risk Management TDR Project Implementation Unit
Specialist
Ebrima Jatta Accountant TDR Project Implementation Unit
Alagie Laye Administrative Assistant Technical TDR Project Implementation Unit
Yahya Jobe Administrative Assistant Operations TDR Project Implementation Unit
Kodou Jagne Procurement Assistant TDR Project Implementation Unit