

--- Page 1 ---

V&v& 
- 1 - 
 
Call for applications 
TDR Clinical Research Leadership fellowship programme 
Deadline for applications:  19 February 2024 at 17:00 (CET) 
 
 
Summary 
TDR, the Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical Diseases, is a global programme of 
scientific collaboration that helps facilitate, support and influence efforts to combat diseases of poverty. 
It is co -sponsored by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Development 
Programme (UNDP), the World Bank and the World Health Organization (WHO). 
 
The Clinical Research Leadership (CRL) fellowship programme, launched by TDR in 2023, is based on four 
pillars: 
Pillar 1:  Improved clinical research skills obtained through flexible placement of fellows at T raining 
Partner Organizations (TPOs). 
Pillar 2:  Strong clinical research leadership skills acquired through customized learning, coaching and 
leadership experience at the home institution, geared to each fellow’s needs and interests. 
Pillar 3: Enhanced ge nder equity promoted through active measures to ensure fair participation of 
women and men and people who do not fit into these binary gender identities. 
Pillar 4: Strengthened institutional capacity by maximizing the fellow’s contribution on re-entry. 
 
This new fellowship programme will maximize the value of the clinical research skills obtained through the 
placement at a TPO by focusing on research leadership, with fellows using their clinical research skills, in 
conjunction with competencies and capabilities to effectively communicate with, and support, members 
of a multidisciplinary team.  Every effort will be made to support the participation of women, notably in 
building on learnings from former fellows and  institutional development plan will enable the fellows to 
maximize their contribution to strengthening their institution on re -entry and develop and manage  a 
research team to undertake a research study.  Fellowships are anticipated to greatly contribute to  the 
advancement of top and promising researchers, enhancing their impact on the improvement of research 
institutions in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), including the facilitation of peer training.  
 
In the first selection round  which took place in 2023, 20 fellows (6 men, 14 women) were selected for 
placement at thirteen TPOs. 
 
We invite applicants interested in a CRL  fellowship programme to carefully read the eligibility criteria for 
TDR’s call for applications and apply to the second round of applications.  
 
TDR will fund fellows employed by academic and research institutions in any low - and middle-income 
country across the globe ( not limited to  those in sub -Saharan Africa ) to be placed in pharmaceutical 
companies, product development partnerships (PDPs) and academic-affiliated research organizations, in 
Africa, America, Asia, Europe and Latin America, to train and develop new research skills on infectious 
diseases. 
 



--- Page 2 ---

Call for applications 
 
 
- 2 - 
Successful applicants are placed  from 6  to 12 months in TPOs and receive a reintegration plan for 12 
months at their  home institutions. Fellowship duration will be based on the proposed targeted training 
offered by each TPO. 
 
Background 
Researchers and clinical trial staff from low- and middle-income countries ( LMICs), who are involved in 
clinical research projects , have limited opportunities to acquire experience and develop skills for 
conducting clinical trials outside of an academic or public -sector setting. As a result, few researchers and 
clinical trial staff from LMICs assume leadership roles in clinical research on infectious diseases of poverty. 
 
The TDR CR L fellowship programme is supported by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the 
International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) . It offers targeted 
training in research and development in TPOs (pharmaceutical companies, PDPs , and research 
organizations) to develop highly skilled personnel from disease endemic LMICs, to enhance competencies 
in clinical research and clinical trials for drugs, vaccines, and diagnostics on a broad range of poverty-related 
infectious diseases, emerging infectio us diseases, pandemic preparedness, antimicrobial resistance  and 
Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs)1. 
 
Scope 
The purpose of the CRL fellowship programme is to provide funding support to researchers and clinical trial 
staff from LMICs to acquire essential leadership skills in clinical research through placements in TPOs. The 
scheme targets mid-career clinical researchers or clinical trial staff who are employed by a legal entity in an 
LMIC where they are currently conducting clinical research activities in the scope of TDR  and in a broad 
range of poverty -related infectious diseases, emerging infectio us diseases, pandemic preparedness, 
antimicrobial resistance and Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs)2. 
 
TDR will fund selected fellows to be placed in TPOs  to train and develop new research skills linked to target 
infectious  diseases. 
Fellows can only be funded once under this grant scheme. Grants awarded are not transferrable from one 
individual to another. The fellowship duration is 6 -12 months based on the proposed targeted training 
offered by each TPO, followed by a reintegration period of up to twelve months in their home institution. 
Fellows must be committed to returning to their home institution for a minimum of two years  after 
completion of the fellowship. Fellows should be able to demonstrate how the experience gained during 
the training programme will be applied upon return to their home organization. 
 
Expected impact 
The CRL fellowship programme aims to develop additional human resources that will increase the amount 
of high-quality research and development of required interventions against  poverty-related infectious 
diseases, emerging infectious diseases, pandemic preparedness, antimicrobial resistance , HIV/AIDS, 
tuberculosis, malaria, and NTDs in LMICs. Fellowships are expected to add significantly to the development 
of the best and most promising researchers and maximize their contribution to improving the function of 
research institutions in LMICs, including the training of their peers. The programme  will strengthen 
collaboration between research institutions, clinical researchers and staff, pharmaceutical companies, and 
PDPs. The programme will also contribute to the achievement of Sustainable Development Goal 3: “Ensure 
healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages”. 
 
 
 
1 For the purpose of this call, neglected tropical diseases include dengue/severe dengue; rabies; Chagas disease; Human African 
trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness); leishmaniasis; cysticercosis/taeniasis; dracunculiasis (guinea-worm disease); echinococcosis; 
foodborne trematodiases; lymphatic filariasis; onchocerciasis (river blindness); schistosomiasis; soil-transmitted helminthiases; 
Buruli ulcer; leprosy (Hansen disease); trachoma; yaws 
 



--- Page 3 ---

Call for applications 
 
- 3 - 
Placements 
TPOs may offer placements in the following areas: design and conduct of clinical trials , including 
operational planning, management and evaluation; clinical development of vaccines, including associated 
epidemiological studies; assessment of drug development programmes; diagnostics; biostatistics; data 
management and pharmacovigilance. 
 
TPOs that have agreed to participate in this programme are listed below: 
 
Host training partner organizations City, country Number 
of places 
BioNTech SE Mainz, Germany 2 
Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi) Geneva, Switzerland 2 
European Vaccine Institute (EVI) Heidelberg, Germany 2 
FIOCRUZ – Fundação Oswaldo Cruz & 
Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi), Latin America 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil 2 
Gadjah Mada University (Indonesia) & 
Murdoch Children’s Research Institute & the University of 
Melbourne (Australia) 
Yogyakarta, Indonesia 
Melbourne, Australia 
 
2 
GSK Biologicals Wavre, Belgium 4 
Infectious Diseases Data Observatory (IDDO) Oxford, UK 2 
The International Severe Acute Respiratory and emerging 
Infection Consortium (ISARIC) Oxford, UK 1 
International Vaccine Institute (IVI) Seoul, South Korea 2 
ISGlobal, Barcelona Institute for Global Health and University 
of Barcelona Barcelona, Spain 2 
Luxembourg Institute of Health Competence Center for 
Methodology and Statistics, & Clinical and Epidemiological 
Investigation Center   
Luxembourg, Luxembourg 2 
Medicines for Malaria Venture Geneva, Switzerland 2 
Novartis 
Basel, Switzerland,  
New Jersey, USA 
2 
Otsuka Novel Products GmbH (ONPG) Munich, Germany 1 
Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute (Swiss TPH) Basel, Switzerland 1 
University of Cape Town Cape Town, South Africa 2 
Ugandan Virus Research Institute (UVRI)-International &  
AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI), HIV Vaccine Program 
Entebbe, Uganda 2 
 
 


--- Page 4 ---

Call for applications 
 
 
- 4 - 
Eligibility 
In order to be considered eligible for the call, the applicant should: 
• be a national of, and resident in, an LMIC.  
• be a postgraduate (MSc or PhD) or MD; MSc pharma graduate, with proof of experience of clinical 
research activities in the scope of TDR. 
• have obtained their first degree within 15 years of submission of the application. 
• have been a researcher or clinical staff member employed for the last 24 months in an institution 
with a registered legal entity in  an LMIC conducting clinical research activities in poverty-related 
infectious diseases, emerging infection diseases, pandemic preparedness, antimicrobial resistance 
and NTDs. 
 
Application procedure 
Please complete the registration process at the WHO survey site provided below. This registration will 
grant you access to the online application form with your email address. 
 
https://extranet.who.int/dataformv3/index.php/219662?lang=en  
 
Upon registration, you will receive an individual link for both completing and partially saving the 
application form. Detailed instructions on how to fill out the application form can be found HERE
.  
 
If you encounter any issues during the registration process, please feel free to contact Mr. Daniel Hollies 
(holliesd@who.int). 
 
Deadline for submission of applications 
Applications must be submitted by 19 February 2024, 17:00 (CET). 
 
Selection process 
The process includes the following steps: 
• Applications submitted before the deadline undergo an initial screening by  the TDR secretariat, 
based on the eligibility criteria  . 
• Eligible applications will be forwarded to participating TPOs. 
• TPOs select up to five shortlisted candidates for interview. 
• Interviews are held between the home institution, the candidate and the TPO, in the presence of 
TDR. 
• TPOs rank candidates based on the interview. 
• The final matching process of candidates and TPOs is conducted by TDR. 
• Once the matching process is complete, home institutions , fellows and TPOs are informed of the 
final match, following which contractual arrangements begin. 
 
Financial provisions 
Each grant covers one economy class return ticket (home – TPO – home); a monthly stipend based on the 
location of the p lacement; health insurance and support to present at the relevant international 
conference during the fellowship, and access to an alumni network. 


--- Page 5 ---

Call for applications 
 
- 5 - 
 
A break at six months can be offered to allow the fellows to go back to their home institution to present 
to their peers the acquired training and the scientific progress made so far. 
 
The grant also includes provisional funds for reintegration , conditional upon the approval of a progress 
report and reintegration plan. 
 
Gender 
TDR is committed to Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity in science. Researchers are encouraged to apply 
irrespective of gender identity, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religious, cultural and social backgrounds, or 
(dis)ability status.  
 
We encourage women to apply to this CRL fellowship programme. Currently Dr Brenda Okech who is TDR 
former fellow is accepting fellows for this call at the Ugandan Virus Research Institute (UVRI)-International 
& AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI), HIV Vaccine Program. A flexible placement can be arranged for candidates 
with young families, including a mix of remote and on-site training at the home institution with intensive 
and well-structured mentoring. The duration of remote and on-site placement will depend on the needs 
of the home institution, the TPO, and the fellow. 
 
Stories from previous women CRDF fellows are available at the following links: 
 
Improving women’s lives in Nigeria, Dr Atinuke Olaleye 
Increasing access to needed treatments in Kenya, Dr Clara Agutu 
Breaking a glass ceiling in South Africa, Dr Phumla Sinxadi 
Reducing the toll of neglected tropical diseases like malaria and dengue, Dr Lyda Osorio 
United Republic of Tanzania, Dr Brenda Okech 
 
 
Additional information 
For questions related to this funding scheme, please contact Dr Mahnaz Vahedi (vahedim@who.int). 
 