

--- Page 1 ---

TDR-supported 
research fellows 
contribute to RTS,S 
malaria vaccine 
development
TDR’s Clinical Research and Development Fellowship (CRDF) programme has supported 19 fellows who have 
contributed to the development of the RTS,S malaria vaccine. We take a closer look at the impact the fellowship 
programme has had on building African R&D capacity to tackle malaria and other infectious diseases in Africa.
It’s a testament to the success of TDR’s Clinical Research and Development Fellowship (CRDF) programme that 19 of its 
fellows were involved in the development of RTS,S/AS01 (RTS,S) – the antimalarial vaccine likely to save thousands of 
lives across Africa following WHO’s recent recommendation for its widespread use.
The vaccine targets the sporozoite stage of the malaria parasite and is the result of more than 30 years of research 
and development by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK). It was developed through a partnership with PATH, with support from a 
network of African research centres. Here we profile Dr Opokua Ofori-Anyinam from GSK and two of the CRDF fellows 
involved.
DR OPOKUA OFORI-ANYINAM, 
Director of Clinical Development, GSK Biologicals (Belgium)
An ambitious and visionary researcher of Ghanaian origin, 
Opokua played a pivotal role in setting up the capacity 
building partnership between TDR and GSK Biologicals 
(Belgium) and in training several fellows.
“It all began when we started early field efficacy trials of 
RTS,S in Africa,” said Opokua. “There weren’t many African 
scientists at the time who had the clinical/regulatory 
experience that we could collaborate with.” It’s through 
her efforts and the support of her senior colleagues and 
TDR staff that the partnership came into being.
The partnership started with co-funding and teaching in 
training programmes in Africa on Good Clinical Practice 
(GCP) and ethics and regulatory affairs for scientists 
and ethics committees, as well as providing support for 
African-based training organizations such as the African 
Malaria Network Trust and the Pan African Bioethics 
Initiative (PABIN). The capacity building programme then 
expanded to bringing mid-level African scientists to work 
at GSK Biologicals to gain further insight into vaccine 
development, as well as providing opportunities for the 
fellows to form networks with international researchers 
which would otherwise not have been available to them.
Since the programme’s establishment, at least 25 
CRDF fellows have trained at GSK Biologicals, working 
on malaria and TB clinical development as well as 
pharmacovigilance of vaccines. Those involved in RTS,S 
development (see Table 1) worked on all three phases 
of clinical vaccine development as well as on ongoing 
pharmacovigilance.
Opokua points out the importance of the on-the-job 
training the fellows received: “They are not just there as 
observers. Fellows are equipped with a broad clinical and 
international regulatory and pharmacovigilance skillset 
that can be used for other things aside from malaria.”
GSK has been very transparent about why it is building 
research capacity. The hope is that fellows will go back to 
their home countries and train others, thereby building 
a corps of clinical researchers on the continent GSK and 
other companies can collaborate with. “It’s about research 
for Africa and for African diseases. It isn’t just about GSK,” 
said Opokua. “Everyone has gone on to do really great 
things, in Africa, as well as internationally,” she said.
“It’s about research for Africa and for African diseases. Fellows are 
equipped with a broad clinical and international regulatory and 
pharmacovigilance skillset.”


--- Page 2 ---

PROFESSOR MAHAMADOU ALI THERA, 
Professor of Parasitology-Mycology at the Malaria Research and Training 
Center, University of Sciences, Techniques and Technologies of Bamako, Mali
DR EFFUA USUF, 
Associate Professor and Clinical Epidemiologist, 
The MRC Unit The Gambia at LSHTM
Through his work and with the MRC team they were 
able to show that the RTS,S vaccine was efficacious and 
provided the evidence that allowed age de-escalation 
development  into children. Later during his time at GSK 
he helped develop the first paediatric study protocol in 
African children. “I was proud to have been part of the 
development of RTS,S,” he said, adding his belief that 
RTS,S development had lessons for all vaccine developers. 
“I doubt if there is anyone who can say they haven’t learnt 
something from it.”
Since his fellowship, Mahamadou has, together with other 
colleagues, established GCP training and the capacity for 
undertaking Phase I, II and III clinical trials of vaccines 
and drugs at his host institution. Now a professor, he has 
also gone on to work on two other promising blood-stage 
malaria candidate vaccines – AMA1 and MSP3.
As well as exploring vaccine schedules, her main focus 
was assessing the safety and immunogenicity of RTS,S in 
HIV-positive children and looking at the immune response 
to hepatitis B when RTS,S is co-administered with various 
vaccines. Following her fellowship, Effua has completed 
a TDR-sponsored project on vaccine wastage, and an 
MRC/LSHTM post-doctoral fellowship on pneumococcal 
carriage serotypes. Moving on, she conducted a similar 
vaccine wastage study in the Solomon Islands under 
a UNICEF consultancy, and she has contributed to the 
COVID-19 response in the Gambia. 
As a female scientist with young children (the youngest 
only 4 years old at the time of her CRDF fellowship), she 
appreciated TDR’s flexibility and found working with 
women such as Opokua “really motivating.” Effua’s name 
would appear on more than five GSK publications, and as 
a leading African epidemiologist she was invited to give a 
presentation on her career at the World Health Assembly 
in 2017.
Now a senior scientist in the Gambia, Effua started her fellowship in May 2013, just 
after completing her PhD on pneumococcal vaccines and around the time that RTS,S was 
submitted to the European Medicines Agency for regulatory review.  As a CRDF fellow also 
based in GSK (Belgium), she split her time between clinical and epidemiological teams.
TDR’s Clinical Research and Development Fellowship (CRDF) allows 
early- to mid-career researchers in low- and middle-income countries 
to learn how to conduct clinical trials. Successful applicants are 
placed for 12 months in host training organizations (pharmaceutical 
companies, including members of the International Federation of 
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations, product development 
partnerships, or research organizations) and then receive a 
reintegration grant for 12 months at their home institution. The 
fellowship is implemented by TDR, the UNICEF/UNDP/World Bank/
WHO Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical 
Diseases. TDR is able to conduct its work thanks to the commitment 
and support from a variety of funders. For the full list of TDR donors, 
please visit tdr.who.int/about-us/our-donors. The fellowship is funded 
through a grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
For more information, please contact Dr Pascal Launois: 
launoisp@who.int
Mahamadou, who did his CRDF fellowship at GSK Biologicals (Belgium) back in 2000, 
worked on Phase I and Phase IIb studies for RTS,S in adults and children. “I was the very 
first fellow of this kind at GSK,” he points out, before describing how he worked with GSK 
staff and researchers at the MRC Unit The Gambia at LSHTM on the first proof of concept 
adult study which took place in the Gambia.
