

--- Page 1 ---

 
Strictly Private & Confidential 
 
 
TDR Capital  
ESG Policy & Principles 
December 2024 


--- Page 2 ---

 
TDR Capital | ESG Policy & Principles 2 
1. Introduction 
TDR Capital LLP (“TDR” or “the firm” or “we”) believes that incorporating environmental, social and governance (ESG) 
considerations in its business and investment decisions is essential to creating value for its investors and to developing a 
more sustainable long-term strategy for its portfolio companies. Where possible we take an active stewardship role in our 
companies, seeking to work in partnership with management to grow and develop the business together. 
This ESG policy sets out our firm-wide commitment to ESG management, covering roles and responsibilities, our integration 
of ESG considerations across the deal cycle, reporting, communications, and how TDR manages its own direct ESG impacts. 
It draws upon the United Nations supported Principles for Responsible Investment, of which TDR is a signatory. 
2. Our ESG Principles 
We outline below the five principles that govern how we work, approach investments, and manage our portfolio companies 
in relation to ESG matters. We seek to: 
1. Ensure our portfolio companies comply with applicable laws and regulations  including anti -corruption, 
competition law, social rules on workforce and fair working practices with respect to human rights. 
2. Incorporate ESG factors in due diligence, contributing to our decision on whether to invest in a business. 
3. Measure, report, and improve on ESG issues and performance in portfolio companies  in order to grow value 
sustainably. 
4. Put in place governance and remuneration structures that align portfolio company management interests with our 
own in terms of growing value.  
5. Engage with relevant stakeholders on ESG, including keeping our investors informed on a regular basis. 
3. Roles and Responsibilities 
TDR has dedicated ESG resources in place to support the delivery of our policy and to work proactively with our portfolio 
companies to enhance levels of ESG management. 
Our Head of ESG & Sustainability, Nigel Smith, serves as chair of TDR’s Responsible Investment (RI) committee. The RI 
committee meets quarterly to review portfolio company reporting and to discuss any opportunities and/or incidents that 
occurred during the quarter. The RI committee then reports back to the TDR Partners and operates as a forum to share ESG 
learnings and best practice among the deal teams. 
Each portfolio company is expected to report quarterly on progress relating to key material ESG risks and opportunities. In 
addition to this, portfolio companies are required to report at least annually against c.50 ESG KPIs. These reports are 
reviewed by our RI committee, with feedback provided to the Partners and the deal team regarding any concerns, or potential 
further opportunities. 
Our Head of ESG & Sustainability is responsible for the collation of quarterly ESG reporting and annual ESG key performance 
indicators across all portfolio companies. TDR and its portfolio companies have joint responsibility to implement and monitor 
the application of this policy, creating appropriate governance structures to support the required level of commitment. 
 
 
 
ESG Policy and Principles 


--- Page 3 ---

 
TDR Capital | ESG Policy & Principles 3 
4. Integrating ESG in Our Investment Activities 
Through our stewardship activities we use our influence to promote long -term value creation. T o do this, we engage with 
our portfolio companies at all stages of the investment lifecycle and through our role on investee boards. The TDR team is a 
significant investor in its own funds and as such, we have a clear alignment of interests with our investors and management 
teams. Our approach throughout the deal cycle is outlined in the diagram below: 
4.1 ESG in Origination and Due Diligence 
During origination, we will identify the set of ESG factors that are relevant and material to a potential investment and include 
these in the due diligence plan, and ultimately in the value creation plan if we progress with the investment. Both risks and 
opportunities will be identified and discussed with advisors and management as appropriate. 
Significant ESG issues identified during due diligence need to be specifically raised and discussed with the investment 
committee prior to a final investment decision being made. This analysis is completed through applying internal resources 
and, when necessary, specialist external consultants. 
4.2 Ownership 
Following acquisition, all companies will go through TDR’s ESG onboarding process and are thereafter in close 
communication with TDR’s Head of ESG & Sustainability throughout the ownership period. 
Material ESG issues or mitigating actions identified during pre-investment due diligence will become the initial blueprint for 
action once the investment is approved. 
TDR will work closely with the portfolio company both on a formal basis, through quarterly reports and calls, workshops, 
annual forums and KPI gathering and analysis, and also informally with ad hoc support on reporting or setting ESG strategies, 
objectives, and targets. 
ESG Policy and Principles 
Due Diligence   Closing   Ownership   Exit 
Company due diligence and 
incorporating ESG in value 
creation plan 
TDR & management 
complete ESG template at 
closing 
Ongoing portfolio company 
ESG reviews and reporting 
Preparation includes valuing 
ESG impact 
 
• ESG due diligence red flag 
review, identifying and 
understanding risks and 
opportunities. 
 
• ESG specialists engaged 
where specific risks have 
been identified. 
 
• ESG elements included in 
value creation plan. 
 
• T emplate identifies key 
ESG considerations, some 
of which may need 
immediate attention. 
 
• Agree both quarterly and 
annual reporting 
protocols, including TDR’s 
incident escalation 
procedures. 
 
• Two-way engagement 
with management teams 
to regularly review ESG 
performance. 
 
• TDR’s RI committee 
reviews portfolio 
company ESG reporting 
on quarterly basis and 
annual KPIs. 
 
• ESG reports focus on 
value growth and risk 
reduction to support exit 
options and ensure 
continuing company 
health post-ownership. 
 
 
• ESG factors included in 
vendor due diligence. 
 
• ESG improvements during 
TDR ownership recorded 
and documented. 


--- Page 4 ---

 
TDR Capital | ESG Policy & Principles 4 
The ESG team maintains close contact with the investment team so that it is fully aware of any ESG issues at each stage of 
the investment process. It will also track and manage a combination of standard, as well as company -specific factors. The 
sections below outline some overall guidance in defining the scope of ESG issues at a given company: 
4.2.1 Environment 
• All portfolio companies are encouraged to identify and implement measures to reduce their environmental impacts. 
Where significant value can be gained or protected in these areas, performance initiatives should be pursued. This will 
typically include activity around reducing energy consumption, water consumption and waste reduction. We also expect 
companies to identify and mitigate any adverse impacts on nature and biodiversity. 
• TDR recognises the challenges of climate change and the potential risk this may pose for the investments we make. We 
support the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate -Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which we are 
currently implementing. In alig nment with this, we work with portfolio companies to understand physical and 
transitional climate risks and opportunities. 
4.2.2 Social 
• We do not tolerate unfair, discriminatory, illegal, or immoral working practices either in a portfolio company or its supply 
base. Companies are expected to adhere to international conventions on human rights throughout activities, operations, 
and stakeholder relationships internally and externally. This includes respecting employees’ and contractors’ rights to 
decent working conditions , such as minimum wages, working hours, health and safety and the right to collective 
bargaining. 
• TDR expects its portfolio companies to be equal opportunities employers. Responsibility for implementing equal 
opportunities arrangements and for ensuring compliance with appropriate work practices normally falls to the HR 
function within the portfolio com panies, with monitoring and reporting of such arrangements made through board 
involvement. 
• TDR encourages investment in employee development and training programmes within its portfolio companies. 
Furthermore, TDR values employee engagement and dialogue and endorses practices which support employee well-
being. 
4.2.3 Governance 
• TDR is often a majority investor, and as such would normally be able to control the composition of portfolio company 
boards. Where appropriate we seek to ensure that the Chairperson and CEO functions are held separately within an 
organisation. Where we are not a majority investor (or where there are restrictions on the ability to appoint directors) 
we would normally be entitled to appoint a representative to the board. 
• TDR requires company governance to be in line with all local requirements concerning worker representation. 
• TDR policy for portfolio company boards is in line with those recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2016, modified to take into account the non-public nature of most of the firm’s portfolio companies. 
• TDR has zero tolerance for acts of bribery and corruption , and requires all portfolio companies to have policies and 
procedures to prevent these occurring within portfolio companies. 
• TDR expects all portfolio companies to operate in compliance with relevant industry regulations and quality standards 
and with relevant national and international laws. 
• TDR requires portfolio companies to have ESG -related policies and for these to be regularly reviewed and improved 
over time. 
ESG Policy and Principles 


--- Page 5 ---

 
TDR Capital | ESG Policy & Principles 5 
4.3 Exit 
During the exit period, an internal or external “start-to-finish” review is carried out. This review includes the analysis of the 
company’s ESG performance over time, as well as progress against the ESG action plan defined at the time of investment.  
5, Reporting and Communications 
TDR provides its investors with quarterly reports which contain an overview of our approach to ESG management, as well 
as company specific ESG issues and current highlights of programmes and initiatives. We also monitor, review, and publicly 
report ESG performance via our annual ESG and Sustainability report. Details outlining our approach are included on the 
TDR website and ESG updates are presented at our annual investor conference. 
TDR has in place a comprehensive and robust incident reporting process for portfolio companies. This stipulates the 
requisite level and timeline of incident reporting to TDR depending on the level of materiality. 
6. Managing ESG in Our Own Operations 
Whilst our most significant ESG risks and opportunities can be found across our portfolio companies, we also recognise the 
importance of managing TDR’s own impact. This includes: 
6.1 Environment 
Although our direct impact on the environment from our office in London is small, we have worked towards minimising our 
footprint. We source renewable energy for all electricity consumption, annually measure our carbon footprint and offset this 
with nature-based solutions, minimise any unnecessary plastic waste, maximise our recycling efforts and limit the impact of 
business travel where possible. 
6.2 Social 
Our policy is to encourage full participation from staff in originating investment ideas, developing investment theses and 
contributing to investment decisions, as well as involvement in portfolio company management where relevant. All 
professional staff meet weekly to review firm-wide developments, including deal flow and portfolio company developments. 
TDR Capital is committed to encouraging diversity and inclusion within TDR and its portfolio companies. We believe in equal 
opportunity for all our people through the creation of an inclusive environment, and the elimination of unlawful 
discrimination. This commitment is outlined in our Diversity and Inclusion Policy. TDR is a founding member of Level 20 and 
Out Investors, two industry initiatives which seek to encourage greater understanding and levels of diversity in the sector. 
We are also a participatin g firm in the 10 ,000 Interns Foundation initiative and a corporate partner of GAIN (Girls Are 
Investors). 
6.3 Governance 
TDR Capital LLP has been granted permission by the UK Financial Conduct Authority to act as an Alternative Investment 
Fund Manager (AIFM). TDR Capital LLP is authorised as a full -scope UK AIFM and has not delegated any of its AIFM 
functions. A depositary has been appointed for the funds that are in the scope of the AIFM Directive. 
The firm is a member of the BVCA and Invest Europe and complies with their respective Codes of Conduct. TDR is also 
registered with IRS FATCA. 
 
ESG Policy and Principles 


--- Page 6 ---

 
TDR Capital | ESG Policy & Principles 6 
TDR is structured to avoid potential conflicts of interest. TDR's primary business is the management of its related private 
equity funds and the portfolio companies within these funds. The firm does not have any separate corporate advisory or 
other related areas of business. 
TDR is a supporter and signatory to the Principles of Responsible Investment, Initiative Climat International and the ESG 
Data Convergence Initiative. 
ESG Policy and Principles 