--- Page 1 ---
Financial cooperation between Germany and ACTO through the German Development Bank - KfW

REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE MANAGEMENT, MONITORING AND CONTROL OF WILD
FAUNA AND FLORA SPECIES THREATENED BY TRADE

Term of Reference

CONSULTANCY TO SUPPORT ACTO MEMBER COUNTRIES IN THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF CITES FOR TREE SPECIES IN THE AMAZON REGION

within the framework of Component 3 of the Project:

Strengthening of sustainable / sustainable management initiatives and
traceability mechanisms for Amazonian species.

Position/function: Consultant for the Regional Project for the management,
monitoring and control of species of wild fauna and flora threatened by trade -
Bioamazonía Project, N ° 2006-66-222.

Financing agency: German Development Bank - KfW German Financial
Cooperation.

Executing agency: Organization of the Amazon Cooperation Treaty.

Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Guyana, Perú, Suriname, Venezuela

Brasilia, DF – May/2021

1


--- Page 2 ---
Terms of reference for support to ACTO Member Countries
in the implementation of CITES for tree species of the
Amazon region.

1. Background and Justification
The Amazon Cooperation Treaty Organization (ACTO), through its Permanent
Secretariat (SP), has been executing the Regional Project for the management,
monitoring and control of wild fauna and flora species threatened by trade (Bioamazon
Project), the which is part of a commitment between ACTO and the German Government,
with non-reimbursable financial cooperation funds channeled by German Development
Bank (KfW).
The objective of the Bioamazon Project is to contribute to the conservation of Amazonian
Biodiversity and especially of the species included in the Appendices of the Convention
on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), by
increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the management, monitoring and control of
species of wild fauna and flora threatened by trade in ACTO Member Countries.
The project is implemented through 3 components: 1) National and regional information
and knowledge management systems; 2) Strengthening and regional harmonization of
national mechanisms / systems / processes for the issuance of electronic permits and 3)
Strengthening initiatives for sustainable / sustainable management and traceability
mechanisms for Amazonian species.
On the other hand, CITES, based on the agreement reached between the governments
of the parties, ensures that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants
does not constitute a threat to the survival of the species1.

The international wildlife trade is estimated to be in the billions of dollars annually and
affects hundreds of millions of animal and plant specimens. The trade is very diverse,
from live animals and plants to a wide range of wildlife products derived from them, such
as food products, leather goods from exotic animals, musical instruments made from
wood, wood, souvenir items for tourists and medicines. The levels of exploitation of some
animals and plants are high and their trade, together with other factors, such as habitat
destruction, is capable of considerably reducing their populations and even putting some
species on the verge of extinction. Many of the species in trade are not endangered, but
the existence of an agreement to ensure the sustainability of trade is essential in order to
preserve these resources for generations to come1.
Concerned that the long-term survival of commercially valuable tree species may be
threatened by overexploitation, the CITES Conference of the Parties agreed to list more
than 900 tree species in the CITES Appendices2. Of the species listed in Appendix II of
CITES, around 108 trees are distributed in the Neotropics3, of these, in the Amazon
region there are several genera of arboreal species, such as Swietenia, Cedrela, Aniba
and Bulnesia, which correspond to species of high commercial value and therefore of
interest to the livelihoods of the population in ACTO Member Countries.
Therefore, the Bioamazon Project requires hiring the consulting services of a CITES
specialist for timber species, particularly with experience in the implementation of CITES
procedures and provisions for tree species and knowledge of the processes that are
implemented at the regional level. in ACTO Member Countries, with the purpose of

1 Taken from the CITES website (https://cites.org/esp/disc/what.php).
2 Taken from the website of the CITES Tree Species Program
(https://cites.org/esp/prog/flora/trees/trees_project).
3 Biogeographic region composed of tropical areas of the Americas, from Mexico to Argentina (Morrone
2017).

2


--- Page 3 ---
monitoring and supporting the implementation of the activities identified within the
framework of the base proposal for the Regional Action Plan, which was designed within
the framework of the consultancy also contracted by the Bioamazonía project, for training
and support to ACTO Member Countries in the development of Non-Detriment Findings
(NDF) and the inclusion of Cedrela spp. in Appendix II of CITES, under the regional
cooperation process of ACTO Member Countries.

2. Scope of work
The scope of this consultancy is to give continuity to the actions implemented in the
previous consultancy for “Training and support to ACTO Member Countries in the
development of Non-Detriment Findings (NDF) and the inclusion of Cedrela spp. in
Appendix II of CITES”, mainly through the validation, complementation and
implementation of the basic proposal of the Regional Action Plan, as well as in the
formation and accompaniment of the Working Groups of specialists from the Member
Countries of the ACTO in prioritized activities that contribute to the formulation of Non-
Detriment Findings (NDF) and Legal Acquisition Reports (DAL). Additionally, work will be
done on the preparation of a portfolio of project profiles to facilitate the management of
financial resources, and the participation of ACTO in CITES CoP19 to be held in 2022
will also be supported.
3. Objectives of the Consultancy
3.1. General objective
Support ACTO Member Countries with the actions included in the Amazon Regional
Action Plan for the implementation of CITES of tree species in the Amazon region.
3.2. Specific objectives
• Prepare a diagnostic analysis on ACTO regional strategies that can be integrated
into CITES implementation actions for tree species in the Amazon region.
• Guide the formation of working groups of specialists from the Member Countries
of ACTO and accompany the development of the activities prioritized by its
members.
• Validate, complement and implement the basic proposal of the Amazon regional
action plan for the implementation of CITES directed at tree species.
• Prepare a portfolio of project profiles to strengthen the implementation and
enhance the impact of the general objective of the CITES Amazon regional action
plan directed at tree species.
• Support the preparation for ACTO participation in CITES CoP19 to be held in
2022.
4. Activities
For the development of the consultancy, the consultant will carry out the activities in
close collaboration with the Executing Unit of the Bioamazon Project and the Executive
Directorate of the PS/ACTO and, as a minimum, must consider the following aspects
and stages:
4.1. Preparation of a Work Plan

3


--- Page 4 ---
• Prepare a Work Plan that must contain at least the methodological approach and
the schedule, specifying the activities, those responsible, the duration (required
deadlines) and necessary resources.
• The consultant must previously validate the methodology of their work with the
Executing Unit of the Bioamazonía Project and with the Executive Directorate of
the PS/ACTO.
4.2 Preparation of a diagnostic document on the integration of ACTO regional
strategies into CITES implementation actions for tree species in the Amaz on
region
• The document will be prepared based on the review and analysis of ACTO's
regional strategies; and the main programs, projects or initiatives / actions that
are binding on the actions aimed at the implementation of CITES for tree species
will be identified.
• Once the diagnostic document has been approved by the PS/ACTO, its content
will be integrated into the process of preparing the CITES Amazon regional action
plan for tree species.
4.3. Guide in the formation of working groups of specialists from ACTO Member
Countries and support in the development of activities prioritized by its
members
• It will be supported by the conformation of the regional Governance Structure that,
within the ACTO framework, encourages the participation of CITES Authorities
and Forest Authorities of the PM. The objective of the governance structure will
be to lead the CITES implementation process for tree species in the Amazon
region.
• It will be supported by the formation of regional working groups, which will be
made up of academic specialists appointed by the ACTO MPs and specialists
from other countries at the invitation of the members. The integration of the
working groups will be done considering what is contained in the base Action Plan
proposal generated in Phase I.
4.4. Validate, complement and implement the Amazon Regional Action Plan for the
implementation of CITES directed at tree species
• Based on the information compiled in the diagnostic document and the activities
carried out with the Governance Structure and the Working Groups, a process will
be developed for the validation and complementation of information, which may
include consultation, discussion and/or training for forest technicians and
specialists of the CM-ACTOs for the generation of additional inputs, for the
subsequent implementation of the Amazon Regional Action Plan for the
implementation of CITES directed at the tree species listed in the Convention. For
training activities, preference should be given to using ACTO's Regional Platform
for the Exchange of Information and Knowledge (PRIC).
• Once the document has been approved by the PS/ACTO, it will be presented for
socialization in a virtual meeting that will have the participation of all interested
parties of the PM of the ACTO and invited for consideration by the SP / ACTO.
4.5. Preparation of a portfolio of project profiles to strengthen the implementation
and enhance the impact of the objectives of the CITES Amazon regional action
plan directed at tree species
• In order to facilitate the operation of the Amazon Regional Action Plan
approved by the PS/ACTO and socialized with the stakeholders of the ACTO
CMs, a portfolio of profiles will be carried out in coordination with the

4


--- Page 5 ---
Governance Structure and the Working Groups. projects whose purpose will
be to become a support tool for the management of financial resources from
international cooperation.
• The consultant will prepare a base proposal for the portfolio of project profiles,
which, after being approved by the PS/ACTO, will be presented and socialized
in a virtual working meeting with the stakeholders of the ACTO CMs and
invited to attend. consideration of the PS/ACTO.
• After the socialization, the PS/ACTO will edit and prepare a document to be
used as a management tool.
4.6. Support for the preparation of the parallel event on the progress of the
Amazonian countries in the implementation of CITES for tree species to be
organized by ACTO at CITES CoP19 to be held in 2022
• Support will be given to the efforts to prepare a parallel event in the
framework of the next CITES CoP19 to be held in 2022.
• An information document will be prepared for CITES CoP19 on the activities
carried out by ACTO CMs for the implementation of CITES targeting tree
species in the Amazon region.
• Within the framework of the development of the parallel event, the results
obtained by the project will be presented and support will be provided for the
consideration of the PS/ACTO in the management activities with donors for
the financing of projects within the framework of the Amazon Regional Action
Plan for the implementation of CITES targeting tree species.
4.7. Preparation of the final report
The Final Report must contain:
i) An executive summary of the diagnostic document containing information on
the main programs, projects or initiatives / actions that are binding on the
actions aimed at the implementation of CITES for tree species.
ii) An executive summary of the Amazon Regional Action Plan for the
implementation of CITES aimed at tree species in the Amazon region,
including the main actions to be implemented for each line of action.
iii) An executive summary of the project portfolio, containing a synthesis of each
project profile.
iv) A synthesis of the information document prepared for CITES CoP19 on the
activities carried out by ACTO CMs for the implementation of CITES directed
at tree species in the Amazon region.
5. Expected products, reports and payment value
5.1 Product 1. Work Plan (10%):
• Up to 10 days after signing the contract, through prior analysis and approval of
the document, which will contain at least the following items: background,
justification, methodological description, and schedule of act ivities, specifying:
activity / task; description, duration, start and end date, necessary resources.
5.2 Output 2. Diagnostic document on the integration of ACTO regional strategies
into CITES implementation actions for tree species in the Amazon region
(15%):
• Up to 55 days after signing the contract, through prior analysis and approval of
the Report containing the diagnostic document.

5


--- Page 6 ---
5.3 Output 3. Report on the activities implemented to guide the formation of
working groups of specialists from the Member Countries of ACTO and
support in the development of the activities prioritized by its members (15%):
• Up to 115 days after the contract is signed, through prior analysis and approval
of the Report containing the information on the Governance Structure and the
Working Groups created within the framework of what is contained in the
proposed Base Action Plan generated in the Phase I.
5.4 Output 4. Report on the activities of validation, complementation and
implementation of the Amazon Regional Action Plan for the implementation of
CITES directed at tree species (20%):
• Up to 175 days after signing the contract, through prior analysis and approval of
the Plan by the PS/ACTO.
5.5. Output 5. Document containing a portfolio of project profiles to implement the
CITES Amazon regional action plan directed at tree species (15%):
• Up to 235 days after signing the contract, through prior analysis and approval of
the PS/ACTO.
5.6 Output 6. Information document for CITES CoP19 on the activities carried out
by ACTO MPs for the implementation of CITES targeting tree species in the
Amazon region (15%):
• Up to 280 days after signing the contract, through prior analysis and approval of
the PS/ACTO.
5.7 Product 7. Final Report (20%):
• Up to 300 days after signing the contract, through prior analysis and approval of
the final Document containing:
The executive summary of the diagnostic document with information on the main
programs, projects or initiatives / actions that are binding on the actions aimed at the
implementation of CITES for tree species.
The executive summary of the Amazon Regional Action Plan for the implementation of
CITES directed at tree species, including the main actions to be implemented for each
line of action. This summary should also be accompanied by a PowerPoint presentation.
The executive summary of the project portfolio, containing a synthesis of each project
profile.
A synthesis of the information document prepared for CITES CoP19 on the activities
carried out by ACTO CMs for the implementation of CITES directed at the tree species
of the Amazon region.
Each report / product must be presented in Spanish in two (2) originals in physical (Arial
11 font, printed) and magnetic / digital media accompanied by pertinent supporting
documentation (documents and annexes with drawings and graphics, tables, jpg maps,
photos, interviews, contact lists, shapefiles, databases in Excel or others, etc.).
Each report/product must contain at least the following document structure: 1 -
introduction; 2- Antecedent; 4 - results; 5- conclusions /recommendations /proposals and
6- Annexes, all adjusted to the descriptions of this ToR.
Deadlines for review, adjustments and approval
The EU-PS/ACTO will evaluate and approve the products and will have a maximum
period of five (5) business days for review and comments.

6


--- Page 7 ---
The adjustments and raising of observations, if they exist, will be made by the
consultancy within a maximum period of five (5) business days to present a new version
with the modifications.
The reports must be approved by the PS/ACTO Bioamazon Project Executing Unit.
6. Consultant profile
6.1. Academic training
• Graduate in forestry engineering, agronomic engineering or biological sciences.
• With specialization or postgraduate studies in botany, ecology or biodiversity
management.
Note: For the submission of candidacies, the profiles of the candidates will be accredited
with a simple copy of the title, certificates, certificates, contracts, orders or conformities
or publications or any other documentation that reliably demonstrates academic training,
experience, training and / or training and National Registry of Suppliers (RNP). Later,
during the selection process, the PS/ACTO may require verification of the authenticity of
any of the documents presented in plain copy.
6.2. General experience
• Have at least seven (7) years of professional experience counted from the
graduation of the professional career and have developed services related to the
implementation of CITES regarding tree species.
6.3. Specific experience
• Experience of at least three (3) years in work related to the development of non-
detriment findings of CITES tree species.
• Have at least three (3) studies or publications on timber species within the
framework of CITES provisions as author or co-author.
The consultant should be available to start work immediately.
7. Conditions and workplace
The consulting work will be carried out in the consultant's own facilities, using electronic
means to carry out the work. The Bioamazonía Project Executing Unit will make available
the Zoom Platform service with the translation from Spanish x English x Spanish for
Regional meetings.
8. Supervision and Coordination
The consultant will be under the supervision of the Executing Unit of the Bioamazonía
Project and the Executive Directorate of the PS/ACTO, who will make the technical
observations they consider necessary for the optimal execution of the consultancy.
For monitoring, supervision and follow-up activities, the consultant must provide an
instance in the cloud with access to the Executing Unit of the Bioamazonía Project, of
the Executive Directorate of the PS/ACTO to execute the follow-up activities.
9. Duration of the consultancy
The consultancy will have a duration of one hundred twenty days (10 months) calendar
from the signing of the contract.
10. Value of the consultancy
The consultancy is for all value, it includes all direct and indirect costs related to fees,
mobilization, as well as those supplies, equipment and everything necessary for its
successful implementation.

7


--- Page 8 ---
The reference value of the contract may not exceed USD 35,000.00 (Thirty-five
thousand US dollars).
11. Presentation of the proposal
All documentation must be presented in A4 format, with index, numbered sheets,
presenting at the end a final statement indicating the number of sheets that compose it.
The proposal to be presented must follow the script in accordance with ANNEX I.
12. Evaluation of proposals
The criteria and scores that will be considered in the evaluation of the proposals are
described in ANNEX II.

8


--- Page 9 ---
ANNEX I - ROUTE FOR THE PRESENTATION OF THE DOCUMENTATION

Item Detailing
1. Title Name of the technical proposal
Consultant's name
Address for correspondence:
Web page:
2. Consultant's information RUC:
Identity:
Cellphone / WhatsApp:
Email:
Presentation of the professional experience of the
consultant, presenting in detail his experience in
3. Experience of the Consultant matters related to the Term of Reference (maximum 5
pages). Current summary of services performed
according to Table 01.
4. CV of the consultant Present the Curriculum Vitae according to Table 02.

ANNEX II - CRITERIA FOR EVALUACIÓN
The candidate will be evaluated according to the training and professional experience
required, according to the following criteria
DESCRIPTION MAXIMUM
SCORE

CRITERION: VOCATIONAL TRAINING

Graduated in forestry engineering, agronomic engineering or
biological sciences. 20
(10 years = 15 points; over 10 years, 1 point per year will be
ACADEMIC credited, up to a maximum of 5 points)
TRAINING With specialization or postgraduate studies in botany, ecology
or biodiversity management = 15 points 20
(more than 5 years, 1 point will be credited per year, up to a
maximum of 5 points)
Have at least ten (10) years of professional experience counted
from the graduation of the professional career and have
developed services related to the implementation of CITES 20
regarding tree species
PROFESSIONA (10 years = 15 points; over 10 years, 1 point per year will be
L EXPERIENCE credited, up to a maximum of 5 points)
Experience in work related to the development of non-detriment
findings of CITES tree species. 20
(10 years = 15 points; over 10 years, 1 point per year will be
credited, up to a maximum of 5 points)
Have at least three (3) studies or publications on timber species
within the framework of CITES provisions as author or co-
author 20
(3 publications = 15 points; more than 3 publications will be
credited 1 point per publication, up to a maximum of 5 points
The candidate must send a copy or link of the publications
MAXIMUM TOTAL SCORE 100
The candidate who obtains a score of less than 70 (seventy) points in the sum of the
articles, will be disqualified.

9


--- Page 10 ---
TABLE 01 LIST OF SERVICES IN PROGRESS OR PERFORMED BY THE CONSULTANT

ORDEM EXECUTION PERIOD CONTRACTING
NUMBER IDENTIFICATION OF SERVICES EXECUTED OR IN PROGRESS COMPATIBLE WITH BEGINING END PARTY CERTIFICATE
(1) THE PURPOSE OF THE CONSULTANCY (Name and (2)
(Month/Year) (Month/Year) direction)

DATE: SIGNATURE OF THE CONSULTANT:

(1) In chronological order of start dates; (2) Attach copies of the certifications provided by duly certified public or private legal entities,
indicating in the column the serial number of the corresponding certification.

10 | P á g i n a


--- Page 11 ---
TABLE 02 PROFESSIONAL IDENTIFICATION, TRAINING AND EXPERIENC
Consultant Name: Identity number:
Specialization: Date of birth: Nationality: Direction:
INSTRUCTION (ONLY HIGHER LEVEL), COURSES, IMPROVEMENT, POST GRADUATION, ETC.

Nº Discrimination Educational institution or entity Duration Ending year

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Identification of the services provided (Object / Nature; Role performed Execution Period Contractor Final client
Location; Extension; Quantitative) Month/Year Month/Year

Consultant's Signature:

(II) ACTO reserves the right to require, for verification purposes, original documents that support the information provided.

11 | P á g i n a