--- Page 1 ---
tdr at a glance

Fostering an eFFec tive global rese arch eFFort on dise a ses oF povert y


--- Page 2 ---
“ TDR ... brings the power
of rigorous scientific investigation
to bear on the infectious diseases
of the poor. ”

dr Margaret c han, d irector- general
World Health Organization

2 T D R AT A G L A N C E


--- Page 3 ---
Who we are

our vision
“ An effective global research effort on infectious diseases of poverty,
in which disease endemic countries play a pivotal role. ”

TDR is the United Nations’ leading Training in Tropical Diseases, we are
programme in research on diseases co-sponsored by the United Nations
of pover ty. Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United
Nations Development Programme
We are a global programme of scientific (UNDP), the World Bank and the World
collaboration that helps coordinate, Health Organization ( WHO) and operate
suppor t and promote global effor ts to under the legal auspices of WHO. Our
combat infectious diseases of the poor work addresses the underlying causes of
and disadvantaged. ill-health that perpetuate a vicious c ycle
of disease and pover ty, and contributes
Established in 1975 as the Special to the achievements of the Millennium
Programme for Research and Development Goals (MDGs).

T D R AT A G L A N C E 3


--- Page 4 ---
What are
the ‘disea ses
of pover ty ’ ?

Over 1 billion children live in pover t y and 10 million of them die each year.
Their parent s are also affected by a range of disea ses that affect their
abilit y to work and suppor t the family.

These are diseases that affect mostly TDR’s por tfolio covers:
the poor in developing countries. They • Malaria,HIV/AIDSandtuberculosis
thrive in poor housing and sanitation
and are most common in tropical • Neglecteddiseasessuchasdengue,
climates. Mosquitoes, flies, crawling helminthicinfections, humanAfrican
insects, and water-borne snails are tr ypanosomiasis, leishmaniasis, leprosy,
among the major ‘vectors’ that transmit lymphatic filariasis, onchocerciasis,
the diseases, which can be deadly or schistosomiasis and sexually transmit-
inflict serious disability. ted diseases.

4 T D R AT A G L A N C E


--- Page 5 ---
T D R AT A G L A N C E 5


--- Page 6 ---
“ For over two decades, TDR has been
the key research arm of the global effort
to eliminate river blindness in Africa.
TDR has worked closely with APOC in
its development of one of the most
successful delivery strategies and public
health campaigns in global health. ”

Uche a miza go, Director, African Programme
for Onchocercia sis Control (APOC)

6 T D R AT A G L A N C E


--- Page 7 ---
Our record of
achievement s

Since our founding in 1975 , TDR-suppor ted research ha s...

• led to five major elimination • documented the ef fectiveness of
campaigns for neglected disea ses – artemisinin - combination thera-
leprosy, onchocerciasis (river pies – now the first line treatments
blindness), Chagas disease and for malaria, and insecticide -treated
lymphatic filariasis globally, and bednets, that provide protection
visceral leishmaniasis on the Indian from disease - carr ying mosquitoes,
subcontinent. so that today both these approaches
are widely used in communities and
• co - developed twelve new drugs underpin the fight against malaria.
for tropical parasitic diseases like
malaria, more than half of the new • trained thousands of researchers
drugs developed globally for these in developing countries and played
diseases since 1975. a pivotal role in the growth of several
significant research institutions in
Africa,AsiaandSouthAmerica.

T D R AT A G L A N C E 7


--- Page 8 ---
Our work

Research to cat alyse improvement s in global health

We support the development and We use implementation research to see
improvement of drugs, diagnostics how best to get new inter ventions to
and preventive strategies for the the people who need them the most.
most neglected disea ses – and then We emphasize research on strategies for
identif y the best ways to use these preventing the diseases in the first place,
tools and get them to people in need. such as through better environmental
Work ing closely with researchers and management and control of the insects
institutions in the countries most and bugs that carr y the diseases.
affected by the diseases, we bring
together the world’s leading exper ts to tackling “ the big three” – malaria ,
review needs and oppor tunities, and hiv/aids and tuberculosis ( tb) – with
propose new approaches to diagnose, promising , innovative approaches.
treat and prevent disease. We then work We use research to test new treatments
with key par tners to evaluate the most and evaluate strategies for ‘the big three’
promising tools and strategies, first in in areas not addressed by others. Examples
the laborator y and then with community include improved low cost diagnostic
members and local researchers in the methods for TB and treatments for TB
field. patients infected with HIV.

8 T D R AT A G L A N C E


--- Page 9 ---
T D R AT A G L A N C E 9


--- Page 10 ---
“ TDR hAS PLAyED A
PivOTAL ROLE iN … ThE
DEvELOPmENT OF DRuGS TO
TREAT TROPiCAL DiSEASES …
ADvANCES iN hEALTh POLiCy,
STRATEGy AND PRACTiCE,
AND iN ThE SuPPORT OF
mORE ThAN TEN ThOuSAND
PROjECTS AND TRAiNiNG OF
ThOuSANDS OF DEvELOPiNG
COuNTRy SCiENTiSTS.”

Mallam i brahim t alba
Former Permanent Secretar y of the Ministr y
of Health of Nigeria

1 0 T D R AT A G L A N C E


--- Page 11 ---
Where we work

A glob a l p a r t ner ship fo cusing on t he de veloping count r ie s where
t he disea ses have the greatest burden – Afric a , A sia and South A meric a .

TDR suppor t s research studies, network s and training oppor tunities, connecting
researchers in the developing countries with other exper t s worldwide.

T D R AT A G L A N C E 1 1


--- Page 12 ---
How we operate

stewardship – providing empowerment – building
knowledge and advocating for research leadership in
research developing countries
We use our global network and We help researchers from developing
‘convening’ power as a UN-based countries play key roles in polic y debates
programme to provide a neutral and deciding research priorities. We are
platform for exper ts and stakeholders also building health research capacity
to examine gaps, needs and through collaborative projects, networks
oppor tunities in health research and leveraging outside resources. We do
on diseases of pover ty. They then this through training and research grants
recommend priority areas that need to scientists from developing countries
to be addressed by global decision- and helping to strengthen the capacity
makers and the broader scientific of institutions and national health
community. Our innovative global research systems in countries where
k nowledge por tal on infectious diseases diseases of pover ty are most prevalent.
( TropIKA.net)allowsresearchers,
polic y-makers and the public to
share k nowledge about challenges,
innovations, events and novel
approaches.

1 2 T D R AT A G L A N C E


--- Page 13 ---
health research for neglected networks to generate and share new
diseases and needs k nowledge and take these ideas for ward.
We cover the entire spectrum of research We are also addressing the broader
– from the “star ting point ” of discover y conditions that could prevent many
and development to the “end point ” diseases of pover ty – including better
of research on access – getting the environmental control of disease -
right drugs and diagnostics to the right carr ying insects and bugs.
people in the right way. access and field testing in

discovery and development real life settings
of effective tools We suppor t research to ensure that
We focus on diseases where new and available health tools and
pharmaceutical industr y investment approaches are used effectively and
is weak because of a lack of widely in countries and communities. For
commercial incentives. We par tner instance, we test how to expand access
with industr y, academic groups and to bednets to prevent malaria, as well as
others to accelerate the research and new and more effective treatments and
development process for diseases that rapid diagnostic tests for malaria, syphilis,
dispropor tionately affect developing leishmaniasis and other diseases.
countries, replacing outmoded “toxic”
drugs and ineffective diagnostics
with new and improved products. We
seek out bright new ideas and create

T D R AT A G L A N C E 1 3


--- Page 14 ---
“ TDR iS ThE ONLy PubLiC hEALTh
RESEARCh iNSTiTuTiON ThAT iS jOiNTLy
OwNED by EvERybODy… ALL OF ThE
mEmbER STATES OF ThE uN AND ThE
wORLD hEALTh ASSEmbLy OwN TDR.
ThE SmALLEST COuNTRy iN ThE wORLD
hAS A STAkE iN iT; ThE biGGEST COuNTRy
iN ThE wORLD hAS A STAkE iN iT. ThAT
TO mE iS ThE COmPARATivE ADvANTAGE
OF TDR: jOiNT OwNERShiP.”

dr Kayode o yegbite
Former UNICEF representative on the JCB

1 4 T D R AT A G L A N C E


--- Page 15 ---
T D R AT A G L A N C E 1 5


--- Page 16 ---
Key strengths

our role as convenors organizations. When we have identified
We focus our effor ts on what United needs that we could not fill alone, we
Nations’-based institutions can do have helped create new organizations
best – bringing people together, and par tnerships that could address
facilitating dialogue and providing a these needs, such as the Multilateral
neutral platform for scientific exchange Initiative for Malaria, the Medicines for
and discussions on how best to take Malaria Venture, theFoundationfor
key research issues for ward. We are Innovative New Diagnostics, and the
helping build sustainable networks of Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative.
researchers and research institutions.
Developing countr y researchers and
institutions are increasingly the leaders our staff
of our activities – many of today ’s We have a highly motivated group
leading scientists in the field have been of professionals from biomedical and
suppor ted by TDR grants. social sciences backgrounds, many with
international reputations in their fields.
Our staff of approximately 100 come
partnerships at all levels from all over the world, representing
We connect with the highest levels of some 45 nationalities and with extensive
national government, and with clinics in firsthand experience of health and
remote areas. We have broad collabora- research issues in developing countries,
tions with private industries, disease so we understand and practice
control programmes, academia, research responsiveness to developing countr y
institutions and nongovernmental needs and cultural diversity.

1 6 T D R AT A G L A N C E


--- Page 17 ---
“ mANy OF ThE ADvANCES mADE iN
DiSEASE mANAGEmENT AND CONTROL
CAN bE TRACED TO ThE SuPPORT
TDR hAS OFFERED DEvELOPiNG
COuNTRy SCiENTiSTS AND RESEARCh
iNSTiTuTiONS TO COmE uP wiTh
NEw AND REALiSTiC iNNOvATiONS,
whiCh ShAPED hEALTh POLiCiES
OvER ThE yEARS.”

the late Major c oura ge Qua shigah
Former Minister of Health of Ghana

T D R AT A G L A N C E 1 7


--- Page 18 ---
equal governance by both independent scientific guidance
developed and developing OurScientificand TechnicalAdvisory
countries Committee(STAC)consistsofsome
Our governing body, the Joint Coordinat- 20 leading health scientists. I t technically
ing Board ( JCB) meets once a year and reviews, advises upon and oversees
includes: TDR’s scientific activities. In addition,
• Governmentrepresentativesfrom other scientific committees comprised of
donor countries global exper ts in their fields oversee the
• Governmentrepresentativesfromeach work of each of our research areas.
of WHO’s six regions
• Othercollaboratingpartiesof TDR,administrative oversight by
which may include nongovernmental Who and tdr ’s co -sponsors
entities WHO is the executing agenc y of
• TDR’s4co-sponsoringagencies, TDR and oversees our day-to- day
UNICEF, UNDP, the World Bank and management. Together, UNICEF, UNDP,
WHO. the World Bank and WHO provide direct
managerial guidance as members of the
TDR Standing Committee, which meets
twice a year with the chairs of the JCB
and STAC to review progress and follow-
up of JCB decisions.

1 8 T D R AT A G L A N C E


--- Page 19 ---
Membership of the tdr Joint c oordinating b oard (1.1. 2010)

Who regions
(regional oFFices)
aFr: Afric a
aMr: A meric a s
eMr: Ea stern m editerranean
eUr: Europe
se ar: South - Ea st A sia
Wpr: w estern Pacific

T D R AT A G L A N C E 1 9


--- Page 20 ---
How we are
funded

Our annual budget is about US$ 50 Our funding comes from a wide range
million, and contributions to our of stak eholders, including governments
programme are entirely voluntar y. and international agencies; other
Most of our funds go directly to ser vices public groups such as philanthropic
and programme implementation in foundations and nongovernmental
developing countries. organizations; and private companies.

2008-2009tdr total contributions U s$ 77,282,581

10 %
6%
Governmental/international
public sector
75% Philanthropic foundations/
nongovernmental sector

Private sector

2 0 T D R AT A G L A N C E


--- Page 21 ---
Your support
makes a difference

O u r r e s e a r c h h a s p r o v i d e d n o t o n l y e f f e c t i v e , l o w c o s t t r e a t m e n t s
that have saved many lives, but has also supported developing country
r e s e a r c h ers and institutions so that they can prioritize and lead the
research efforts in their areas.

Your contribution to TDR is one of the ill health perpetuates pover ty. We are
most cost- effective investments you work ing to improve health conditions
can make in health. Research for health of the poor and most vulnerable people
provides solutions and builds sustain- living in developing countries, which in
able capacity to break the vicious cycle turn will lead to human and economic
where pover ty breeds ill health and development.

to support the work of tdr, please contact:
Mr Meinrad Studer
Manager, External Relations and Governing Bodies
studerm@who.int

T D R AT A G L A N C E 2 1


--- Page 22 ---
2 2 T D R AT A G L A N C E


--- Page 23 ---
“ ThE FAShiON TODAy iS ‘OuTPuT-DRivEN’
PRODuCTS. buT iF yOu ONLy mAkE A
LiST OF ALL ThE PRODuCTS ThAT hAvE
bEEN DEvELOPED by TDR, iT wOuLD
TRuLy miSS ThE POiNT. ThE POiNT iS
ThiS: TDR DEvELOPED A CuLTuRE FOR
RESEARCh-bASED DECiSiON-mAkiNG AND
A FuNCTiONiNG NETwORk ORGANizATiON.
ThiS iS A RARE ThiNG iN AN iNTERNATiONAL
ORGANizATiON. yOu hAvE TO LOOk AT ThE
CATALyTiC FuNCTiON OF TDR AS ONE OF iTS
mAiN STRENGThS.”

dr b ernhard l iese, Chair
International Health Programmes, Georgetown University
Former World Bank representative on the JCB

T D R AT A G L A N C E 2 3


--- Page 24 ---
TDR/GEN/EN/10.1

For research on
diseases of poverty
UNICEF • UNDP • World Bank • WHO

TDR/World Health Organization
20, Avenue Appia
1211 Geneva 27
Switzerland

Fax: (+41) 22 791-4854
tdr@who.int
www.who.int/tdr

The Special Programme for Research and Training in Tropical
Diseases (TDR) is a global programme of scientific collaboration
established in 1975. Its focus is research into neglected diseases
of the poor, with the goal of improving existing approaches and
developing new ways to prevent, diagnose, treat and control
these diseases. TDR is sponsored by the following organizations:

World Bank